Please don't list this on a work's page as a trope.  
Examples can go on the work's YMMV tab.

_"With dated '60s references like these, we won't have much of a life in reruns!"_

Many works that are intended to be "contemporary" end up displaying so many cultural quirks that later audiences mistake it for a deliberate exaggeration of the era by a work made much later. Works that are explicitly set in the Present Day avoid this by proudly declaring the era that the work is intended to reflect, but other works attempt to be more creative in their references, in order to trick the audience into thinking that the current era of the work is supposed to be the same time period of decades later. This article describes the effect on audiences when that attempt fails and the audience is _painfully_ aware of how old the work is.

Topical humour can be especially vulnerable to changing trends/fashions, as they rarely include a dating method. Such jokes often invert Don't Explain the Joke because the explanation is necessary to make it funny again. As the years pass, the number of people who remember the reference shrinks until the punchline becomes an artifact of their generation ("I haven't heard that joke for years!"). Historians studying an era, however, may find it hilarious and these jokes can liven up an otherwise dullish history lesson as you become one of the few people knowledgeable of the time period.

Dismissing a work simply because it is "dated" would be an Appeal to Novelty. Just because a work is dated in some way doesn't necessarily mean it isn't relevant or entertaining to modern audiences, even notwithstanding the kitsch or nostalgia factor. Obviously any medium can be dated by their technical limitations, such as older films and TV shows done in black-and-white, but that relies on an audience with highly-specific knowledge. Some audiences (such as those who have spent too long on This Very Wiki) may find the very tropes in use may be recognisable of an era — such as the '90s Anti-Hero. Neither the technical limitations nor the tropes common to an era of storytelling should be used to establish if the work had inadvertently dated itself to a narrow range of years. Instead, these works are judged based on the way their content and plot calls to mind specific cultural trends.

Compare Anachronism Stew (when the work has elements from across several different decades), Once Original, Now Common (when a concept was new in its day but is now well-established and evolved beyond that), Two Decades Behind (when a work feels like it was intended to be the Present Day, but was actually produced many years after the relevant period it seems to be based on), Values Dissonance (when a work's moral elements make it inaccessible to modern audiences) and Values Resonance (when a dated work's moral messaging manages to feel relevant today). Zeerust is when a work's depiction of the _future_ becomes dated, without necessarily saying anything about the work's present day, so all works with a far-future setting belong there, not here.

Subtropes include Failed Future Forecast (which dates the work between the issue in question becoming relevant and it being resolved in real life) and Fashion Dissonance (when this is caused by clothing and hairstyles alone).

**Important Sidenote**: To avoid questionable examples, do not add a work less than 10 years old unless the situation is especially unusual. (Being completely overtaken by events by time of airing, and being called "instantly dated" by the press, have both qualified in the past.) For most works, it won't be particularly clear which ones really do bleed their production date out of every pore until roughly a decade has passed. However — also remember that while older references zing over the heads of younger consumers, newer references zing over the heads of older consumers, too. So references from modern times can _sometimes_ be accurate, and TV Tropes does not know time.

___

## Examples, organized by both decade and media:

-   1970s
-   1980s
-   1990s
    -   _Home Alone_
-   2000s
    -   Live-Action Films
    -   Video Games
-   Special Cases (either works which span multiple decades, or are Older Than Radio)
    -   _Calvin and Hobbes_
    -   _The Simpsons_

## Other examples:

    open/close all folders 

## 1950s

    1950s Films 

-   _Rear Window_: World-traveling photographer LB Jeffries (played by James Stewart) is stuck in his apartment for weeks because of a broken leg. He can't take the boredom so he looks out his window to watch his neighbors across the courtyard. If it had been at least 5 years later, he would have just watched television to pass the time, but TVs weren't in every home in 1954<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> . Also, later advances in medicine would have required a far more severe injury than a broken leg to confine him to his home — if anything, getting out and staying active would be _encouraged_.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 

    1950s Literature 

-   A couple of Ian Fleming's _James Bond_ stories from ca. 1959 reference the anti-Batista forces in revolutionary Cuba with some sympathy, which wouldn't be the case a year or so later. International travel, while common for Bond, is also much slower than it would be in real life (with an airline flight between London and Istanbul involving multiple stops) and copious smoking on planes and trains.
-   _Rally Round the Flag, Boys!_ has suburban housewives organizing committees to welcome a new Nike installation, which leads to a fight between soldiers and Greaser Delinquents. Throwaway references include a Henpecked Husband comparing trying to make a date with his wife with "like trying to get tickets to _My Fair Lady_."
-   John Updike's _Rabbit, Run_ is set in 1959, and as if to hammer it home, it lingers on cultural moments like specific episodes of _The Mickey Mouse Club_ and, among other things, spends a page and a half averting Nothing but Hits by listing every single song that comes onto the radio and ads for period products as well as the news, involving the Chinese invasion of Tibet. At the time, it seems to have been just trying to capture the banality of Rabbit's ordinary life. Reviewers also note its pre-sexual-revolution treatments of masculinity and sex.

    1950s Live-Action TV 

-   _The Honeymooners_, though the show was always slightly more realistic than other sitcoms around at the time.

-   _The Twilight Zone (1959)_. Though most of its seasons were aired in the early '60s, it still comes off as '50s for the most part, with a lot of commentary on the Cold War and Red Scare in many episodes. There is of course still some Values Resonance to be found in some episodes though, so it varies from episode to episode.
-   Roger Ebert wrote that starting in the 1950s, television made it possible for pop-cultural fads to spread like wildfire and then burn out just as quickly as other, "cooler" fads replaced them. He could swear to this since he was an adolescent during that decade and watched quite a lot of TV, and he could date his childhood pop-culture phenomena — _Davy Crockett_, _The Mickey Mouse Club_, _Zorro_ — not just to the mid-1950s, but to the exact year and sometimes to the exact month.

    1950s Music 

-   The original version of "Santa Baby" as sung by Eartha Kitt refers to a "\[19\]'54 convertible", changed in some covers to "I want a new..." or even "_outer space_ convertible." In the 1960s or 1970s, it'd be closer to this trope, but 1954 isn't a particularly sought-after year for any mainstream American car since styling tended to be at an awkward stage between the flowing Art Deco of the first postwar generation and the long, low finniness of the late '50s, and wheezy old flathead engines and flaky first-generation automatic transmissions proliferated.
-   In the Clovers' 1959 song "Love Potion Number Nine" the lyrics go: "_I told her that I was a flop with chicks / I've been this way since 1956_". Wow, that guy's been a flop with the girls for a looooong time...
    -   The year stayed at 1956 in The Searchers cover in 1965 (which is the version often heard on oldies stations). This turns a three-year dry spell into a nine-year "I'd better step back and take a hard look at what's wrong with my life" serious problem. If anything, it makes even more sense that the guy is desperate enough to hunt down a gypsy (now considered an ethnic slur for Romani people) for a love potion.
    -   Later covers of the song avert this; you can change it to 1996 or 2006 and the song's no longer dated... for a little while.
-   "It's Beginning to Look a Lot Like Christmas" (1951) becomes more dated as time goes on, particularly the verse which talks about what the assorted kids would like to receive. "A pair of Hopalong boots and a pistol that shoots is the wish of Barney and Ben." Setting aside the fact that very few children have been named "Barney" since the 1960s (the name "Ben", while still relatively common, is not as popular as it was at the time either), a pistol would not be an appropriate Christmas gift for little boys in this day and age. Also, how many people singing the song these days even know what "Hopalong boots" _are_?<sup>*&nbsp;</sup>  The girls in the song don't fare much better, since "dolls that will talk and will go for a walk" have long since ceased to be impressive. At least the line about "Mom and Dad can hardly wait for school to start again" is still pretty relevant...
-   The R&B song "Kansas City" mentions the 12th Street and Vine intersection which no longer exists in that city due to redevelopment. In its place is a park with a commemorative plaque and parking spaces painted like piano keys.

    1950s Theatre 

-   _Bells Are Ringing_ necessarily takes place before the rise of answering machines, which had already begun in the 1960s. It has a subplot involving fake orders placed in bulk for recordings of classical music in "all three speeds" (33, 45, and 78 RPM, the latter of which died out around 1958). There's also a List Song rattling off the names of 1950s celebrities (which, like a number of similar songs from Cole Porter musicals, had a few lines revised during the original Broadway run).
-   _Damn Yankees_. Most obviously, the protagonist roots for and then plays for the original Washington Senators, which moved after 1960 to become the Minnesota Twins.
-   _Flower Drum Song_ lays on the 1950s slang and fashions in music and dress a bit heavily. Immigration quotas complicate the love plot, which is resolved with the help of a TV western. The lyrics to "Chop Suey" are a laundry list of people and things popular in America at the time. Notably, the film adaptation made in 1961 changed the references to Bobby Darrin and Sandra Dee to make it seem more current.
-   _Li'l Abner_ is vintage 1950s satire about atomic bomb testing and scientific optimism. The song lyrics allude to a fair number of advertising slogans of the time; "Progress Is The Root Of All Evil," whose title is a cross between an old proverb and a General Electric slogan, is about 1950s trends and failing to keep up with them.
-   _The Most Happy Fella_, despite being set in the 1920s, is commonly supposed to take place in the 1950s, when it was written. This is largely because the musical deliberately dropped the contemporary political topics of the 1924 play on which it was based, including all references to Prohibition.
-   John Osborne's plays _Look Back in Anger_ and _The Entertainer_ were cutting edge in their coarse language and format, depiction of working-class Englishmen and the seedier side of British culture, ushering in the "Angry Young Man" era in British literature. They have a much more mixed reputation today, partly because of how much stuff they influenced, but also their often overwhelming pessimism, their rather complicated treatment of women, and most of all, their dated topicality. Particularly true of _The Entertainer_, whose plot focuses on the long-defunct music hall tradition and myriad references to the Suez Crisis of 1956.
-   Much like other plays written by Agatha Christie, The Mousetrap has become a period piece, due to how technology has progressed significantly since 1952. During the play's snowstorm, the landline phone in Monkswell Manor is the _only_ direct method of communication to and from the Manor. Today, much of the play's plot could be avoided, with the invention of the Internet and Cell Phones.

    1950s Western Animation 

-   The 1959 _Merrie Melodies_ cartoon "The Mouse that Jack Built" (a parody of _The Jack Benny Program_ featuring the show's main cast as mice) is chock-full of late 50s references, but one that would go over the head of people who don't know one World War from the other<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  is when Jack is speaking to Ed, the vault guard, who has evidently been in there a long time by the 1959 date that is assumed. Jack assumes Ed means World War II (which had been over for 14 years by this time), but then Ed drops a reference from World War I.
    
    **Ed:** Halt! Who goes there?  
    **Jack:** It's me, Ed.  
    **Ed**: Oh, hello, Mr. Benny. How are things on the outside? We win the war yet?  
    **Jack:** Oh, uh... yes. Yes, we did.  
    **Ed:** That's good. What do you think they'll do with the Kaiser?
    

## 1960s

    1960s Comics 

-   The Franco-Belgian comic _Achille Talon_ (also known as _Walter Melon_) was written in the '60s and finished in the '90s. The comic was mainly a gag strip with a main character that had an unclear mind and encyclopedic knowledge. Pretty much 90% of the jokes in those comics would barely even work well (unless you can still laugh with jokes about people that mock old cars that have cars themselves that scream the 1960s). The dialogue is also unbelievably dated, not helped by the fact that the comic used a complex vocabulary for its time (the Spanish translator of the comic had to come up with a new joke whenever the original joke didn't translate well into Spanish) and a lot of neologisms that don't catch on with modern viewers.
-   In _The Beaver Patrol_, another Franco-Belgian comic, the 5 main characters are invited by the Iranian government for a vacation. This story (published in two parts entitled _The Haunted Bus_ and _The Ghost_) was written in 1967 and 1969, at a time Iran was still on friendly terms with the West. The Iranians were portrayed in a positive light, while the Kurds were portrayed as savage raiders. After the Islamic Revolution in 1979 and 9/11, those portrayals would be reversed in Western media.
-   The Hungarian gag strip _Jucika_ that ran from 1959 to 1970 referenced cultural phenomena of the time, like supply shortages following the 1956 revolution, crummy infrastructure, life under the oddities of "Goulash Communism", vintage technology, Yuri Gagarin, and the comic's eroticism and Fanservice in general don't feel special compared to the off-the-wall adult cartoons published later. A Hungarian exhibit about fashion and commercialism under socialism was even titled "What Did Jucika Buy?" because her name is so firmly tied to that era. Had the creator not died so early or if another artist had taken over, the strip would likely have kept up with the changing times and looser censorship of later decades, especially since it was intended to be more explicit than the publisher at the time had allowed. Still, the comic's international popularity boost beginning in 2019 shows most strips have a timeless appeal. The artist's other ongoing cartoon, the pro-Soviet political-military satire _Joe and Ivan_ is very much a product of its time, though.

    1960s Films 

-   _The Apartment_: The film is remarkably timeless for something made in the early 1960s, but a few things show their age:
    -   Miss Kubelik's occupation as an elevator operator was already pretty archaic at the time and has now become completely extinct. With the exception of very old buildings.
    -   The fact that new episodes of _The Untouchables_ are airing is a plot point; _The Untouchables_ would air its last new episode in May 1963.
    -   Bud has all of four channels to choose from when he watches television (though this would remain relevant until the mid to late '80s, by which time cable TV would become more widespread).
-   _Bullitt_: The police department watches in dramatic, stony silence as game-changing evidence in the case is printed by the Xerox Magnafax Telecopier, a then-revolutionary fax machine that nevertheless took minutes to send a document. You would also not find an airport even two decades later with security as lax as in the film's climax, where a character is able to carry a gun in and out of an airplane and through an airport without anyone noticing.
-   _The Computer Wore Tennis Shoes_: The enormous and clunky computer that costs $10,000, the fashions, and the short-range bug that the students use to spy on Higgins. They all give the movie a 60s-70s feel for modern viewers.
-   _Cool Hand Luke_, despite being technically set in the 1950s, instantly feels more associated with the 60s. The applicability to the Vietnam War is everywhere — especially with its anti-establishment themes, and Luke being a disaffected former soldier. The film's famous line — "what we got here is a failure to communicate" — has been interpreted as a metaphor for Vietnam. Roger Ebert felt the film was a huge product of its time.
    
    "The year 1967 was at the center of the Vietnam era, and Luke was against the establishment."
    
-   When Dr. Grimsdyke goes for his makeover in _Doctor in Clover_, Robert tells him to lose the moustache as they're right out now. Just one year later, moustaches became a craze after Paul McCartney grew one.
-   _Easy Rider_: The main characters receive (murderous) persecution for being counterculture bikers in the Deep South. In more modern times, "outlaw" culture has become embraced in the South, and bikers dressed like them wouldn't be seen as anything particularly noteworthy.
-   _if.... (1968)_: Conditions for pupils and staff are rather spartan, but this no longer applies. Private school fees have been rising faster than inflation since the 1970s, and a lot of the extra money has gone on a "facilities arms race" to the point that such venues nowadays are reported to be _very_ comfortable. And that's _not_ venturing into the film's treatment of its Axes at School finale, which proved already controversial for its time, but it would be completely unfeasible nowadays.
-   Walt Disney attempted to avert this with _The Jungle Book (1967)_, specifically the vultures. Hence, the vultures _talk_ like The Beatles (and are caricatures of them) but sing like a barbershop quartet, as Walt felt that a bunch of Beatles expies would date the film. Suffice it to say that a Beatles-style number would have aged far better, but considering that barbershop dated back to the early 1880s at a time when the Beatles were still a fairly new fad, how was Walt to know that?
-   _Love with the Proper Stranger_: Quite progressive and un-dated in many ways, but clearly made before abortion was legalized in New York state in 1970.
-   _Magical Mystery Tour_, and not just because it starred the Beatles. Pretty much everything about it, from the bus painted in the most psychedelic colors possible to the fashions to the "experimental" (in reality incomprehensible) plot, screams 1960s.

-   _The Million Dollar Duck_, which is about a duck that lays golden eggs, gets most of its conflict from Executive Order 6102, which prevents a private citizen from owning large amounts of gold. The law was repealed in 1974.
-   _Revolution_ captures the feeling of the 1960s, even though the topics in the documentary might seem old-fashioned nowadays.
-   _One, Two, Three_ _literally_ became a period piece _during_ shooting — when the production started, the Berlin Wall had not been erected yet, and shooting could happen at the Brandenburg Gate. However, as filming continued, and they needed to film a chase between James Cagney's character and his companions and some East German policemen that continued over the border between East and West Berlin, East Germany very unobligingly decided to put up the Wall. The film is written and performed as if still in the pre-wall period.
-   _Peeping Tom_ is instantly recognizable as an early '60s piece from the fashion and vibrant color palette — which resembles the notable pop art of the era. Pornography is portrayed as a secretive thing that a respectable gentleman has to whisper for when the newsagents are empty — and it's paralleled to the protagonist's voyeurism. The film technology is also state of the art for the '60s, and Mark watches his films back on a projector — showing that it was made before videotape was invented.
-   Notorious Z-movie _They Saved Hitler's Brain_ is a weird case, in that chunks of it were filmed in the early '60s, and other chunks were filmed in the late '60s. However, the fashions and costumes were not kept consistent, so it's very easy to figure out the years when some parts were filmed: sometimes, the characters wear clipped haircuts with suits and ties like extras on _Mad Men_, and other times, they look like members of The Monkees.
-   Most of the plot of the 1966 film _Walk, Don't Run_ (actually a remake of 1943's _The More the Merrier_) turns on how shocking and scandalous it is for an unmarried woman to sublet a room in her apartment out to a man. When a newspaper reporter hears the tale of how Steve wound up renting a room from Catherine, he says he's going to write a juicy story about it. Then Catherine's fiancée Julius, a low-ranking diplomat, decides that Steve and Catherine _have to get married_ in order to avoid scandal and social embarrassment and damage to Julius's career. All because Steve rented out Catherine's guest bed. It's impossible to imagine the movie being made even a few years later when the swinging 1970s were underway and nobody would have batted an eye at such a living arrangement.

    1960s Literature 

-   In the foreword to _The Warriors_ (upon which the 1979 film is based), Sol Yurick notes that at the time the book was written, gangs had limited access to guns and cars, both of which would have considerably shortened the timeline of events (and elevated the body count).

    1960s Live Action TV 

-   _The Avengers (1960s)_ is the sort of TV show that could only exist in the '60s — where James Bond had just taken off and spies were cool. Second-Wave Feminism was in, resulting in sexy Action Girls like Cathy Gale, Emma Peel, and Tara King. The hairstyles and fashions of the female characters scream the 1960s, particularly Emma's Spy Catsuit. The show's tongue-in-cheek, Narm Charm tone was so heavily a product of the 60s that attempts to revive the series in the 70s failed — as did a film adaptation in 1998.
-   _The Banana Splits_, especially during the song segments. For example, in the "San Francisco" version of _Wait 'Till Tomorrow_, as well as the "Pop Cop" segment (which doesn't feature the Splits), you can see various, then-current styles of cars from the time.
-   _The Brady Bunch_ bleeds its late 1960s/early 1970s origin, due to Fashion Dissonance and being a touch too conservative for the '70s proper. This is lampshaded in the _Brady Bunch_ movies, where they have this same attitude in _the 1990s_.
-   _Car 54, Where Are You?_: The theme song makes mention of the arrival of Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev at New York's Idlewild Airport in September 1960; Idlewild was renamed John F. Kennedy International Airport in December 1963, and Khrushchev was removed from power in 1964.
-   _The Man from U.N.C.L.E._ lives and dies on its Cold War setting and the oddity of a spy organization employing both American and Soviet agents. Notably, the 2015 film version didn't even try to translate the premise into the present day and is simply set in the '60s.
-   _Mission: Impossible_ clearly dates itself by a combination of two factors: on the one hand, while the conflict with the Soviet Bloc could carry the stories into the 1980s, several episodes dealing with Nazis keep it from going later into the 1970s as concerns about Nazis plotting a fourth Reich faded from popular culture. Also, many episodes mention then-extravagant amounts of money that would be considered rather paltry in the 2010s thanks to fifty years of inflation.
    -   One episode has Barney's invention of the week be a chess computer capable of winning a major tournament, which would have been incredible in the late 60s, but computer programs capable of playing chess became easily commercially available in the late '80s, and a computer program capable of besting a recognized grandmaster was demonstrated in the Deep Blue v Kasparov matches of 1997, making Barney's creation no longer wondrous.

-   _The Prisoner (1967)_, although how unintentional it was is debatable, and the series' influence is such that it probably shaped later perception of the '60s. Nonetheless, the show criticizes Cold War power structures (with the major implication that Number Six's captors may be his own "side" and his retirement from spy service as a "matter of conscience"), and has an overall tone that can only be described as 'psychedelic', features very 1960s fashions (most notably Number Six's jacket, the multicolored capes seen on a few characters, and the prevalence of lava lamps). The finale includes (without giving away too much) the music of The Beatles ("All You Need Is Love") and a character, thematically representing universal youth culture, calling everyone "dad" or "baby". Not all episodes are period pieces, however: one in particular, "The General", turned out to be quite prophetic with regards to the rise of digital culture and the Internet; it just does so involving a computer the size of a room that spits out printouts.
-   Depending on the episode, _Star Trek: The Original Series_ has this going on alongside its Zeerust. Between the color palette, the miniskirts, the Cold War\-esque Fed/Kling politics, the civil-rights-era Aesops, and Chekov's _Monkees_ hair, it comes across as some kind of Neo-'60s even when they _aren't_ confronted with space hippies.
-   _Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In_, with the colorful sets and go-go dancers with painted-on comic messages.
-   Given that _Thunderbirds_ was made in the '60s, this was going to be inevitable. Modern British viewers may be a little miffed at the main airport being called "London Airport", unaware that back in the day, this was actually the name for Heathrow Airport before Stansted and Gatwick acquired "London" status. There are also several references to Cape Kennedy.

    1960s Music 

-   The Fugs: They were once the most audacious rock band out there because they were the first to openly sing about sex, drugs, and politics. As a result, a lot of their material is nowadays heavily dated because so many imitators have come in that it lost all of what made it special in the first place. And, of course, there are many references to the Vietnam War, Kennedy, Nixon, Communism...and so on.
-   "Happy Together" by The Turtles includes the line "If I should call you up, invest a dime..." Telephone booths often cost 50 cents nowadays, and even they are becoming obsolete as cell phones are becoming more commonplace.
-   "Mustang Sally" sung by Wilson Pickett: "I bought you a brand new Mustang, 1965..."
-   "Magic Bus" by The Who manages to still sound reasonably timeless until it betrays the fact that it was written before British currency was decimalized with "Thruppence and sixpence every day just to drive to my baby".
-   The Elvis Presley song "Return to Sender" (1961) has a lyric in which the singer gets the letter returned to him stamped "no such number/no such zone". The "zone" is a reference to postal zones, a way of routing letters in large cities that was introduced in 1943 and retired in the 1960s in favor of modern-day ZIP codes.
    -   If you know that ZIP actually stands/stood for "Zone Improvement Program" (which is why it's "ZIP Code," not "Zip Code"), it's still pretty clear, but most people who know that are old enough to remember zones outright.
    -   "Bossa Nova Baby" has the line "Loan me a dollar and I'll buy some gas." Nowadays, $1 worth of gas _might_ get you around the block.
-   The Beatles' "Taxman" from _Revolver_ refers to contemporary tax rates = "One for you, nineteen for me." (a 95% supertax on earnings for British subjects in the top income bracket) and contemporary politicians — "Mr. Wilson" and "Mr. Heath" refer to Harold Wilson and Edward Heath, who were the leaders of the Labour Party and the Conservative Party, respectively.
    -   "Everyone you see is full of life/It's time for tea and _"Meet the Wife_"." (_"Meet the Wife_" was a popular BBC TV sitcom of The '60s.)
    -   The song "Revolution" from _The White Album_ has the line "If you go carrying pictures of Chairman Mao you ain't gonna make it with anyone anyhow". Back in the 1960s and 1970s, Maoism was a bit more popular and widespread among leftist youth than it is now.
    -   "Back in the U.S.S.R." has "a period piece" written all over it. In addition to the obvious fact that the U.S.S.R. was disbanded in 1991, the song is written as a parody of The Beach Boys 1965 hit "California Girls", has a Chuck Berry Shout-Out (to 1959's "Back in the U.S.A.") for a title, and contains a reference to "Georgia on My Mind" (originally written in 1930, and popularized by Ray Charles in 1960).
    -   "Happiness Is a Warm Gun" has since become this with increased debates on gun control worldwide since the sixties. Most glaringly, The Beatles' home country became subject to this in 1997 when the Firearms (Amendment) Act banned handguns in the United Kingdom.
    -   "Polythene Pam" features the lyric "She's the kind of a girl that makes the 'News of the World'". The News of the World was a popular British tabloid newspaper that focused on celebrity scoops and gossip that had shut down in 2011, dating the song.
-   Many believe that Phil Ochs has largely been swept under the rug due to his habit of lifting song ideas from newspaper headlines (for a great example of this, listen to "Outside of a Small Circle of Friends"). The result is that many of his references are lost in time to all but those who were alive back then (and paying close attention to the news) and young fans who are unusually savvy in regard to the events of the time. Unfortunately, the result is that Ochs remains relatively unappreciated as one of the true pioneers and innovators of the folk/protest music movement of the sixties.
    -   "Love Me, I'm a Liberal" (1966) has aged rather well, being a general-purpose indictment of the Bourgeois Bohemian who claims to be all for progressive social causes, but backs out in disgust the moment those causes threaten to affect their lives or meaningfully change society, and sees actual progressive rebels as immature rabble-rousers. However, by nature of having to talk about those social causes, it falls into this, referencing things like popular black entertainers of the time, the assassinations of politicians and civil rights leaders, Hubert Humphrey being named Vice President, Les Crane, and the Korean War. There are more than a few attempts to update the song for more modern times—Ochs himself did one performance in 1971 where he updated a few verses, such as changing mentions of Korea to mentions of Israel.
-   A lot of Frank Zappa's works are period pieces, most blatantly with _We're Only in It for the Money_, which satirizes the hippie movement.
-   Scott McKenzie's One-Hit Wonder "San Francisco (Be Sure to Wear Flowers in Your Hair)", dates from a very specific time, namely the spring and summer of 1967 in San Francisco, popularly known as the "Summer of Love". Similar songs like "Let's Go To San Francisco" (The Flowerpot Men), "San Franciscan Nights" (The Animals), and "California Dreamin'" (The Mamas & the Papas) have dated for the same reasons.
-   _The Ventures' Christmas Album_ has holiday standards arranged around hooks from contemporary pop hits like "I Feel Fine", "She's Not There", and "When You Walk in the Room", making it unmistakably mid-1960s.
-   Whilst the The Beatles' original _Sergeant Pepper's_ album (1967) is viewed today as a timeless classic, the many imitators that were rushed out by other record companies to cash in on its success have dated badly. The Rolling Stones' _Their Satanic Majesties Request_ and The Moody Blues' _In Search of the Lost Chord_ — both intended to cash in on the mood and themes of Sergeant Pepper — today sound like pastiches of Sixties pop music with few memorable songs. Other Pepper imitations which now sound like standard products of their own decade include The Small Faces' _Ogdens' Nut Gone Flake_ and Pink Floyd's _The Piper at the Gates of Dawn_ and The Hollies' _Evolution_ and _Butterfly_ <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> .
-   "Kay" by John Wesley Ryles, a 1968 country music song about a broken-hearted taxicab driver. Two of his customers are soldiers who tell the protagonist "how they hate that war in Vietnam". When Daryle Singletary covered the song in 2002, he changed the line to "how they won that war in Afghanistan".
-   Motown band The Marvelettes had a hit in 1962 with "Beechwood 4-5789", however telephone exchange names (like the title is) were phased out later that same decade.
-   _小林 旭　　～自動車ショー歌～_ (which translate to _Automobile Show Song_, with the _Sho-ka_ doubling as a Fun with Homophones, as it also means "song") is a snapshot of the car culture of '60s Japan, as it lists off a bunch of automobile brands and companies that were known among the general populace back then; many of which have since been either discontinued or have faded out entirely. Examples include Packard,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Opel,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and Bellett.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Particular mention goes to the prominence of American brands and the comparative lack of German brands. This song shows just how American cars dominated the import car market in Japan. Had this song been made today, there would be a lot more mention of German brands such as BMW and Porsche as they've overtaken The Big Three in terms of its popularity in Japan since the 70s.
-   Allan Sherman:
    -   Many of his songs satirized 1960s culture, some popular ("Al 'n Yetta", "Pop Hates The Beatles") and some social ("Downtown", "The Rebel"), and even the songs with broader topics tend to have passing mentions of products and politics from the era. As a result, a lot of jokes tend to get lost on modern listeners.
    -   The first gift in "The Twelve Gifts of Christmas" is a Japanese transistor radio. After The '70s, transistor radios lost most and eventually all of their market shares to (in chronological order) boomboxes, Walkmans, portable CD players, MP3 players, and smartphones.
-   The 1961 song "Sad Movies (Make Me Cry)" references newsreels and color cartoons, neither of which have been regularly shown in theaters since the end of that decade.
-   Simon & Garfunkel's "A Simple Desultory Philharmonic" is awash with references to characters from the 50s and 60s, including writer Norman Mailer, Maxwell Taylor, John O'Hara, JFK/LBJ-era Defense Secretary Robert McNamara, The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, Lenny Bruce, novelist Ayn Rand, record producer Phil Spector and more.

    1960s Theatre 

-   _The Boys in the Band_ is _very_ much a look at the self-loathing, dread and neurosis in a pre-Stonewall gay culture — especially since it hit the stage in 1968, one year before the Stonewall Rebellion. In fact, when William Friedkin adapted the play for the screen in 1970, right when gay liberation and pride were on the rise, he was excoriated for putting together a "throwback" to the days of gay shame.
-   The original version of the musical _How Now, Dow Jones_ is filled with topical and cultural references highly specific to 1967. (These were extensively revised for the show's 2009 revival.)
    -   The plot is driven around a young woman who's frustrated because her fiancé won't marry her until the Dow Jones Industrial Average rises above 1,000.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   Many jokes rely on the audience being familiar with Lane Bryant (a women's clothing store popular at that time) and _The Graduate_.
    -   One scene that requires a set, costumes, and actors that aren't used anywhere else in the production is a parody of a then-current Dreyfus Fund commercial featuring a lion emerging from the subway and moving along Wall Street.

    1960s Western Animation 

-   _Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!_, thanks in no small part to the bubblegum pop background music during some chase scenes (starting with the second season in 1970 — which makes this show a good candidate for the 1970s entries as well!).
-   _Rocky and Bullwinkle_ ironically has had a much longer life in reruns — appearing in syndication through the 1960s, '70s, and '80s, on Nickelodeon in the early 1990s, and occasionally elsewhere since then — than the show poking fun at it in the page quote (_Tiny Toon Adventures_ hasn't been seen much on TV since the mid 2000s, other than briefly rerunning on Hub Network in 2013).<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  _Rocky & Bullwinkle_ even had a new series debut on Amazon Prime in 2018.
    -   For that matter, even the backup segments for the moose and squirrel's show have shown a much livelier afterlife through reruns and revivals than _Tiny Toons_. _Mr. Peabody & Sherman_, for instance, have had a theatrical animated film and their own spin-off animated TV series (on Netflix).
-   _The Flintstones_ and _The Jetsons_, despite taking place in the past and the future respectively, have enough 1960s pop culture references that they come off as "The 1960s With Cavemen" or "The 1960s With Flying Cars".
    -   The 1980s _Jetsons_ revival is a weird double example, essentially being 1980s pop culture references in a 1960s-style future. This also applies to _Jetsons: The Movie_.
-   Fellow animated sitcom _Top Cat_ falls under this too from its sixties slang to the running gag of Top Cat constantly using Officer Dibble's now obsolete police phone.
-   The 1967 _Looney Tunes_ short _Daffy's Diner_ has Daffy using DDT to give the rubber mice he cooks a more authentic flavor. DDT would be banned in the early 1970s.
-   _Frosty the Snowman_ begins with a scene where the group of children attend school on Christmas Eve, which was common in the United States until the mid-'60s. However, the special was produced in 1969.

## 2010s

    2010s Advertising 

-   The Nando's ad "Last Dictator Standing", due to depicting Robert Mugabe as still in charge of Zimbabwe but showing Muammar Gaddafi as one of the dead dictators he's reminiscing about, could only have been made between Gaddafi's overthrow and death in the 2011 Libyan Civil War and Mugabe's 2017 ouster in a Military Coup and death in 2019.

    2010s Anime and Manga 

-   Around the time of Barack Obama's presidency in the United States (2009-2017), a plethora of manga and anime referenced Obama or Obama-like stand-ins as bosses, mayors, leaders... and as the United States' president of the time (if set on every-day Earth), etc., usually in settings outside Japan — for example, _Tiger & Bunny_ in 2011 and _Mobile Suit Gundam 00_ as mentioned in Turn of the Millennium, thus giving away the "era" they were created in. In some cases, same or similar slogans from his campaign would be included as blatant additions, such as America from _Hetalia_ yelling "Yes we can!" in one of his character songs from the time. This occurred roughly in the range of 2008 to 2015/16, though it peaked from 2009 to 2012/13.
-   The 2013 _Dream 9: Super Collaboration Special!!_ positions _Toriko_ as a peer and competitor to _One Piece_ and _Dragon Ball_. At the time, _Toriko_ was being pushed as a rising star and a potential successor to internationally famous Long-Runners like _Bleach_ and _Naruto,_ which were beginning to wind down. Unfortunately, the special ended up basically being _Toriko_'s last gasp in terms of notoriety; its anime adaptation was canceled a year later and the manga modestly concluded in 2016, with no sign of a spinoff, continuation, or big multimedia success to follow, and it hasn't had any luck showing up in crossovers since then. Anyone watching it today will probably wonder what this third series is, when _One Piece_ and _Dragon Ball_ are still very much in the public eye.
-   At one point, the characters in _A Sister's All You Need_ talk about how manga adaptations of light novels are more popular than the novels themselves overseas. While that might have been true for the early 2010s when the novel volume this discussion occurs in was released (as light novels were notorious for not being licensed outside Japan), the mid to late part of the decade saw a massive boom in the export of light novels to foreign shores. This reference to a time before light novels became readily accessible overseas, and the sheer amount of name-dropping of other novel series that were popular at the time, places this series firmly in the early 2010s.

    2010s Comic Books 

-   _Faith_ dates itself firmly to the early '10s thanks to the title character's constant gushing reverence for Joss Whedon, who was at the time enjoying a brief return to the spotlight as the writer and director of _The Avengers (2012)_. Midway through the decade, his ex-wife exposed him as a serial adulterer and a toxic figure on set. Combined with the disastrous release of _Justice League (2017)_, fans revisting his older works to find examples of Values Dissonance and Unfortunate Implications, and finally confirmation from various actors dating back to _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ that he had engaged in extremely abusive behavior against actors on a regular basis, Whedon fell out of favor in geek circles like the ones Faith inhabits. Incidentally, Faith's last outing, _Faith: Dreamside_, was released in 2019, and she has not had an ongoing, or even a miniseries, since then.
-   _Memetic_ is a horror comic book written in 2014 about a deadly internet meme that spreads uncontrollably, mutates people and causes the civilization's collapse. Said meme, the "Good Times Sloth", is in the format of "Advice Animals" (animal picture with a caption in Impact font) which has fallen out of favor since then. Also, the unnamed black US president is clearly Barack Obama.

    2010s Fan Works 

-   _Garfield: Royal Rescue_: The fanfic's premise of Garfield crashing Prince William's wedding to Kate Middleton makes it rather apparent that it could've only been written during the early 2010s, specifically during 2011 when said wedding was a huge pop culture talking point.
-   _Super Smash Brothers: Guardians Arise!_: The fanfic was written in the context of the early 2010s with aspects that haven't aged well. Much of the humor present in the fanfic is perpetuated with gay jokes and Internet memes of the era; the former being slightly outdated by increased sensitivity towards the LGBT+ community and the latter due to being instantly dated to the time period, which is especially jarring since it's a _post-apocalyptic dystopian fic taking place a century after the supposed year of 2010_. The story also playfully bashes _The Twilight Saga_; which still gets backlash these days, albeit not as pronounced. Much of the cast's canonical material also instantly dates it to the status of the franchises of the time period; Pit's characterization in the fanfic can be seen as jarring post-_Uprising_, and the _Fire Emblem_ aspects, from plot, worldbuilding, and characterization, can be seen as lacking a bit of awareness now that access to the franchise's material through later games and _Fire Emblem Heroes_ became more accessible and had a Newbie Boom.

    2010s Films — Animation 

-   Due to _Rocko's Modern Life: Static Cling_ being stuck on The Shelf of Movie Languishment from 2017 to 2019, some of the references to "modern" trends were outdated by the time the film was finally released:
    -   While selfie sticks are still in heavy use, they are now considered a nuisance and are even banned at Disney Theme Parks and other venues.
    -   Hoverboards, which are featured in one part of the film, quickly lost popularity once they started exploding without warning.
    -   The Bland-Name Product version of the iPhone that Filburt and Heffer go nuts over at the start of the movie has a ninth version, which was skipped for the iPhone X.
-   In _The LEGO Movie_, the hit pop single Emmett loves, "Everything is Awesome," is a parody of the optimistic, party-centric electro-pop that dominated the first half of the 2010s. By contrast, Wildstyle views Batman's angsty, less trendy music as more legitimate art due to its pessimism. By the final years of the decade, bubblegum electro-pop had mostly fallen out of favor and had been replaced with the more cynical sound of trap and emo-pop music, which also would render obsolete the contrast between popular music and darker styles like Batman's. Similarly, Emmett's favorite TV show, _Where Are My Pants?_ is a more kid-friendly parody of the crude, bawdy, laugh track-reliant sitcoms of the 2000s (i.e. _The Big Bang Theory_, _How I Met Your Mother_, and _Two and a Half Men_), which were already on the way out and which would become substantially less popular as the 2010s continued, being replaced by dramedies.
-   _Megamind_ has everyone, including Megamind himself, use flip phones instead of smartphones. Also, a reference that specifically dates the film is Megamind's "No You Can't" posters, which acts as a direct parody of Barack Obama's "Hope" poster and his "Yes We Can" slogan.
-   _The Nut Job_ also dated itself right out of the gate by using "Gangnam Style" (complete with an animated PSY in the credits!) nearly two years after the song's heyday (the movie came out in January 2014).
-   _Teen Titans Go! To the Movies_, while largely a parody of superhero films as a whole, has a scene joking about Stan Lee's Once an Episode cameos in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. While Stan Lee's death _by itself_ wouldn't qualify, Lee already planned his final cameo to be _Avengers: Endgame_, so subsequent _MCU_ films would have been without him even if he were still alive. This dates _TTGTTM_ to firmly before 2019.
-   _Wreck-It Ralph_'s soundtrack contributions from Skrillex (who even makes an animated cameo) date the film to the height of the early-to-mid-2010s Electronic Dance Music boom, especially when Dubstep (the genre Skrillex made songs for) was one of the most popular EDM genres in America.

    2010s Films — Live-Action 

-   _Battle: Los Angeles_ is an Alien Invasion film that's fundamentally rooted in The War on Terror, with the aliens portrayed as using weapons and tactics eerily similar to insurgents in Afghanistan and Iraq (to the point that a popular fan theory claims that the aliens, whose motives are kept a mystery, invaded Earth out of desperation) while the protagonists are United States Marines who had previously fought in that war and who themselves use the same weapons and tactics that they did over there. Furthermore, its aesthetic and portrayal of the Marines and aliens as being on roughly equal footing in terms of unit-level combat also evokes the military and sci-fi shooters of the era, which were designed for competitive balance to keep things fair for the player.
-   _The Bling Ring_. Even discounting the fact that it's Based on a True Story, the film is very much a satire of the celebrity worship and youth culture of the late 2000s that held on through the early 2010s, complete with a cameo by Paris Hilton As Herself.
-   _Bullet to the Head_: Jimmy's refusal to drink anything but Bulleit Bourbon, which is treated as an obscure brand, so he brings a bottle to bars and pays for a glass to drink it with. Shortly after the film's release, the brand's distribution greatly expanded, causing it to become quite common. Today, it seems a bit odd for Jimmy to be so obsessed with a mainstream brand and have such a hard time getting it.
-   _The Cabin in the Woods_, filmed in 2009 and released in 2012, was a satire of the horror genre as it existed in the '00s and early '10s (an era that horror fans both then and now regard as an Audience-Alienating Era), the scenario that the protagonists find themselves dropped into being derivative of any number of Platinum Dunes-style teen slasher movies from that period (many of which were literal remakes of older films). Both the humor and the broader story concern the fact that cookie-cutter slashers like this are the only horror stories that the Ancient Ones, figures meant to represent mainstream moviegoers, want to see, with the Controllers lamenting how they'll never get to do something more interesting than just the tried-and-true zombie redneck torture family. By the end of the 2010s, the horror genre had undergone a radical transformation, with a slew of more artistic, boundary-pushing films being released to critical acclaim and mainstream success to the point that the 2010s came to be seen as a Golden Age for the genre, and many of the tropes that this film lampooned having being discredited in the years after it came out.
-   The 2011 slasher parody _Detention_, which is crammed with jokes about Torture Porn films, fad diets, contemporary pop & indie rock, text-speak, and the wave of '90s nostalgia that was rising at the time. The opening scene is almost as much a "Mister Sandman" Sequence for 2011 as what we see later in the film for 1992, with the line "your lack of faith in the durability of Kesha is disturbing" ringing Hilarious in Hindsight given how quickly she vanished from pop culture (or Harsher in Hindsight, given precisely how and why she vanished). One of the film's subplots also involves a millennial teenage girl and her Generation X mother undergoing a "Freaky Friday" Flip, with the resulting generation gap being Played for Laughs; one scene has the mother (in her daughter's body) remarking about how her generation never had any great crises or struggles, to which the teenagers around her (thinking that she's still her daughter) respond by bringing up 9/11, the war in Afghanistan, Hurricane Katrina, and the death of Heath Ledger — all historic touchstones for those who grew up during the 2000s.
-   _Diamantino_ is a wacky genre-busting European co-production about the world's best soccer player. Not only the titular character is a sort of Affectionate Parody of Cristiano Ronaldo, but the film also deals with topics that became major concerns in Europe in the 2010s, such as the migrant crisis and populist movements pushing resentment against the EU. It also deals with topics like queer culture and shows Diamantino instantly becoming a meme as soon as he fails the decisive penalty kick in the 2018 World Cup finale, or at least an alternative version of it.
-   The Irish film _Dive_ was filmed in 2017 and released in 2018, but became dated immediately after its first week. The reason? The plot deals with a champion swimmer who becomes pregnant. Abortion was illegal in Ireland since the signing of the 8th Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland, which gave the unborn fetus the same rights as a living human, thereby making abortion illegal, in September of 1983. Exactly one week after the premiere of the film, the 26th Amendment to the Irish Constitution passed, which repealed the prior amendment and legalized abortion in the country.
-   The Cuba-set (and Cuba-shot) opening scenes of _The Fate of the Furious_, released in 2017, were made during the Cuban Thaw, a period of warming relations between the U.S. and Cuba during the later years of the Barack Obama presidency, and Dom’s positive comments on Cuba reflect some of the shift in attitudes during the period. By the time the film opened, Donald Trump (who strongly opposed Cuban relations) had taken office, and his administration began reversing the Cuban Thaw just months later. By the time the sequel was released, most pre-Thaw restrictions and sanctions were back in place and the U.S. had once again named Cuba a state sponsor of terrorism.
-   _Escape Room (2019)_ was produced at the height of the late-2010s escape room fad— a fad that would come to an abrupt end in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic making many people avoid most forms of indoor gathering. Escape rooms, which involve multiple participants solving a puzzle to find their way out of a locked room, were hit hard by this, and while they still exist they are nowhere near as popular in the years immediately before the pandemic.
-   _Found Footage 3D_ was released in 2016, but due to its long production cycle, the film inadvertently dates itself to no later than 2014 in a few ways. The plot revolves around the making of the first 3D found footage film; in real life, _Paranormal Activity: The Ghost Dimension_ took that crown in 2015. Scott Weinberg, the journalist interviewing the cast and crew, is also stated to come from FEARnet, a website and cable network which shut down in late 2014 after being acquired by Comcast<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and merged with the TV network Chiller (which would cease to exist after 2017). The opening crawl also explicitly establishes the Film Within a Film _Spectre of Death 3D_ as taking place in 2014.
-   _God Bless America_, released in 2011, is a dark satire of late 2000s/early 2010s American culture. Among the (literal) targets of this pop-culture satire is a Pompous Political Pundit in the vein of Bill O'Reilly, a Spoiled Brat featured on a _My Super Sweet Sixteen_\-type show, a militant fundamentalist church in the vein of the Westboro Baptists, and everybody on the set of a reality singing competition based on _American Idol_. Most of these subjects would largely fall out of fashion in the years following, while others would even come to be considered totally innocuous, making the film's portrayal of them as everything wrong with American society come off as quaint or just plain weird.

-   _The Internship_, which appropriately involves an internship program at Google (while it is far from being simply a 90-minute ad for the company, it is depicted in a positive light), was released in 2013, near the end of a period marked by an absolute fascination with Silicon Valley. Nowadays, big tech giants are more likely to be shown in a decidedly negative light, alternately criticized either for amplifying fringe groups or for draconian censorship policies.
-   One of the main characters in _Iron Sky_ is a US President based on Sarah Palin, which manages to date it to the brief moment in the late '00s and early '10s when Palin was a major political figure. By the time the film was released in 2012, she was already at the tail end of her fame and was only taken seriously by her diehard supporters; the entire joke was about how ridiculous the idea of Palin becoming President would be. Nowadays, she's barely a blip on the cultural and political radar, rendering the joke quite dated.
-   The 2015 Live-Action Adaptation of _Jem and the Holograms (2015)_, which updates the story of _Jem_ to depict the protagonists' rise to fame as occurring chiefly through social media and YouTube. A lot of the subject matter of the film is built entirely around its portrayal of New Media.
-   _L.A. Slasher_ is a horror-comedy parodying the celebrity culture of the late 2000s and early 2010s, particularly Reality TV stars that the titular slasher killer views as having no talent or worth to society. What makes it particularly notable is the fact that, while it was released in 2015, after a long period sitting on the shelf, most of the targets of its satire (such as _Teen Mom_, Paris Hilton, and a young Justin Bieber) had already ceased to be relevant by the time it was filmed... in **2012**.
-   2012's _Liberal Arts_. Its emphasis on the _Twilight_ saga's popularity and Hype Backlash makes it obvious it came out during the late 2000s-early 2010s.
-   2010's _Piranha 3D_. The podcast _Disaster Girls_ referred to the film as a snapshot of the Von Dutch/Ed Hardy spring break pop culture excess of the 2000s made at the last moment in time when that culture was mainstream. Specifically, they point to the film as an extended piss-take on that entire culture in how it presents its participants as getting literally skewered and torn apart. Its parody of _Girls Gone Wild_, an infamous series of sleazy softcore porn videos from the late '90s and '00s which went bankrupt in 2013, is a reference point likely to be lost on anybody born after 1995, who, in an age of easily available hardcore porn on the internet, may scratch their heads at the appeal of buying DVDs of topless college co-eds making out on spring break.
-   _Pitch Perfect_, released in 2012, showcased the emergence of what would be eventually termed as "pop feminism", from its theme of empowerment to the "anti-rape whistle" joke, while the antagonists are some stereotypical 2000s-era fratboys.
    -   The sequels didn't have much luck either with them prominently featuring songs that were currently on the charts, which dated them seriously to whichever year they were being produced.
-   _Popstar: Never Stop Never Stopping_, a feature-length parody of Justin Bieber and early-mid 2010s pop culture in general. Many of its protagonist Connor's tribulations are exaggerated versions of real things that Bieber did during that time that helped make him a tabloid punchline. There are also jokes about smart devices, hoverboards, Macklemore's "Same Love", the raid on Osama bin Laden's compound, and Apple's heavy-handed promotion of U2's 2014 album _Songs of Innocence_, while Connor's girlfriend Ashley Wednesday is the star of a film franchise adapted from a series of dystopian YA novels. Unfortunately for the film, things had changed enough by the time of its premiere to make it look irrelevant.
-   Carrying on from Seltzer and Friedberg's past parody films in the latter half of the 2000s, their 2013 film _The Starving Games_ is basically "Early 2010s: The Movie", which, apart from _The Hunger Games_ (the source material that's the most obvious being primarily parodied in the film), features references to: _Angry Birds_, _The Annoying Orange_, _Avatar_, _Captain America: The First Avenger_, _Downton Abbey_, _Fruit Ninja_, "Gangnam Style", _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_, _Here Comes Honey Boo Boo_, _Iron Man 2_, _The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey_, _The Expendables 2_, _Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows_, and _Thor_.
    -   _Scary Movie 5_ was similarly criticized for this, with its primary parodies being of horror films that wound up somewhat forgotten (_Mama_ and _Paranormal Activity_, the latter a Stock Parody at the time), as well as non-horror films of the era like _Rise of the Planet of the Apes_, _Black Swan_, _Inception_, _The Help_ and, most egregiously, _Fifty Shades of Grey_, which was still just a novel at the time. It also includes a parody of _Evil Dead (2013)_, a movie that opened just one week earlier.
    -   _Vampires Suck_ is a parody of the _Twilight_ saga released in 2010, when the franchise was at the height of its popularity _and_ the detractors were at their most vocal, and it was a mild box office success. The film's very existence puts it here since while _Twilight_ still has fans and detractors even today, it's not the hot topic it was when _Vampires Suck_ was released, and it's very unlikely the film would be made today, let alone be a success.
-   _Scream 4_.
    -   Just as the original films were a reaction to the slasher movies of the prior decade, so was this one a reaction to the remake and Torture Porn trends of the 2000s, with an appropriately updated set of "rules" for modern horror movies. Said trends largely died out not long after its release, with the 2010s witnessing a "horror renaissance" with a slew of films that broke Out of the Ghetto and won critical acclaim. The killers film their massacre and plan to upload it to the internet, anticipating the online video boom of the 2010s... but they do so with webcams and digital cameras that have to be edited later as opposed to livestreaming (a technology that, in real life, was used for a number of infamous spree killings later in the decade). Social media is name-dropped, but only as something that teenagers use, when just five years later, Sidney would likely be using it heavily to promote her book.
    -   And in keeping with the series' postmodernism and Meta Fiction, it also happens In-Universe, with the Film Within a Film _Stab 6_ featuring Ghostface taunting two victims through Facebook. One of the people watching it remarks that it sounds like a stupid attempt by some hack writer to keep the series "hip", causing the other to reply "I guess now it would be Twitter."
-   _Spider-Man: Homecoming_: Peter's classmates, and Peter himself, are shown making use of drones, which were a fad in the late 2010s that quickly died down after legislation shut down their usage in public spaces. Though modernising Peter's story to represent the youth of today is a generally common part of his mythos, this in particular stands out as one that doesn't age well simply because it looks dated only a few years later.
-   _Spring Breakers_, much like the aforementioned _The Bling Ring_, is a satirical take on the party-hard pop culture of the late 2000s and _very_ early 2010s. James Franco's character in particular, a Pretty Fly for a White Guy rapper/drug dealer, is a distillation of every Glam Rap stereotype of the era, specifically towards Houston rapper Riff Raff.
-   The Eddie Murphy comedy film _A Thousand Words_ was made in 2008 but released in 2012. It features flip phone Product Placement, the novel _The Shack_ is referred to as a hot trend when it was already five years old by the time the movie came out, and the protagonist is a wealthy literary agent whose job was basically made redundant as e-books were incredibly popular at the time the film was released.
-   The 2012 film version of _The Three Stooges_ attempts to be an updating of the famous comedy team, but ending up dating itself severely not only by its several instances of Cringe Comedy (including a number of Groin Attacks) among other moves to look relevant but also by including the cast of _Jersey Shore_ as themselves for a portion of the film. _Jersey Shore_ would be canceled later that year (though a sequel series later premiered in 2018).
-   _Tragedy Girls_ is a satire of a particular type of True Crime fan that proliferated in the 2010s, the film's Villain Protagonists Sadie and McKayla being two teenage girls who are obsessed with murderers in a manner that recalls the real-life "Columbiner" communities of that era. Much of that culture died out after the Parkland shooting and the March for Our Lives in 2018, a year after this film came out, with the online true crime community (at least its more mainstream segments) coming to regard the sort of idolization being parodied here as tasteless.
-   _Unfriended_:
    -   The original film is built around an extremely accurate depiction of social media, computer technology, and various websites as they existed in the mid-2010s. Given the rapid pace at which the internet changes, people watching the film now would likely notice how all of those things have been redesigned in various ways just a few short years after it came out. One website shown in the film, the YouTube competitor LiveLeak that emphasized graphic, uncensored content, went offline in 2021. Perhaps most notably, the film depicts teenagers regularly using Facebook, which in 2015 was still thought of, like social media in general, as a website where teenagers were the main demographic. Over the next few years, Facebook would lose much of its young userbase to competitors like Snapchat, TikTok, and Twitter due to the company's many scandals, as well as to its subsidiary Instagram, such that by the '20s it had earned a reputation as a site for their Amazingly Embarrassing Parents instead.
    -   The sequel _Unfriended: Dark Web_, meanwhile, is rooted mainly in contemporary Urban Legends about The Deep Web, which became notorious in the '10s as the home of a Black Market where drugs, weapons, child porn, and other illegal services can be found and purchased — and, according to the legends, where one could find livestreaming snuff films and worse.
-   Though primarily set in the The War on Terror era, _Vice_'s political views are influenced by Trumpian, reactionary conservatism, particularly in the clips of the film's focus group at the end.
-   _Zoolander 2_, much like the aforementioned _A Thousand Words_, was criticized as this for _the previous decade_ when it was released in 2016. The movie's merciless mocking of the fashion world was seen as not only mean-spirited (in spite of the fact many of the industry's leading figures joined in) but fairly dated at a time when the "supermodel culture" was experiencing a huge comeback, thanks to the rise of social media (Instagram especially) as a major self-promotion platform for models.

    2010s Jokes 

    2010s Literature 

-   _Kire_ tries so hard to be cool and hip it ultimately falls into this trope. The main character has a Darth Vader alarm clock (it's not unusual, but it does give him a distinctive "90s kid" vibe) and a superfluous amount of "Justin Bieber is totally lame!" comments.
-   The book _Alice in Tumblr-Land_, a modern retelling of fairy tales, which relies on the existence of Tumblr, OKCupid, Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, etc. for most of its humor. It's painfully dated to the mid-2010s and as such will fail to be relevant within a couple of years.
-   _OMG Shakespeare_ is a series of books that attempt to modernize the works of William Shakespeare by making everything into text and text-speak. The constant use of slang and emoji will likely quickly date them to being released circa 2015.
-   The _Origami Yoda_ series is full of early-mid 2010s pop-culture references and views. Examples include the much-disliked FunTime program showing an educational parody of _Gangnam Style_ (though to the book's credit, the characters do mention that the song came "a few years back") and Professor FunTime's actor receiving a role in "the upcoming _Star Wars_ movie" (meaning that the events in the book took place sometime before 2015, when _The Force Awakens_ came out).
-   Ben Aaronovitch has lamented that the London Metropolitan Police reinvents itself so often that the meticulously researched _Rivers of London_ books can usually be dated precisely to the year before they were published. However, because the time elapsed in the books is much shorter than the time it takes to write them, they've gradually become _intentional_ period pieces: _Lies Sleeping_ (2018) opens with a police report that dates the novel to 2014, and later namechecks Michelle Obama as First Lady.
-   Ernest Cline's _Ready Player One_, published in 2011, is set 20 Minutes into the Future but otherwise reflects much of the worldview of the late 2000s/early 2010s time period in which it was written and grew popular, most notably the prevalence of nostalgia for The '80s (it takes place largely in a cyberspace world rooted in its creator's '80s nostalgia) and the ascendancy of the internet and geek culture within the mainstream during that time. Of particular note is how this trope affected the book's film adaptation in 2018, by which point Silicon Valley tech companies and geek culture had been embroiled in various controversies that clouded the once unambiguously positive view that many people had of them. The resulting film (which was co-written by Cline) wound up softening the specific '80s focus of the OASIS in favor of a broader pool of pop culture references, as well as toning down some of Wade's nerd tendencies and giving a more morally gray take on the OASIS' Steve Jobs\-esque creator James Halliday.
-   _The Ultra Violets_ suffers heavily from this. The book series is bogged down by constant references to pop culture, most of which have become dated since the series' release. One notable example comes from the second book, where the villain quotes a Rihanna song when enacting their evil plan.
-   The Time Travel novel "A Girl in Time", by Australian author John Birmingham, was clearly written during the 2016 US Presidential election - the middle third is set in November 2019, in the midst of a dystopian Trump presidency where political dissenters are sent to work on building the Mexican wall and communication with them is tightly proscribed, as well as gun control being significantly loosened to the point open-carry is permitted in Seattle.
-   _Futuristic Violence And Fancy Suits_ was written in 2015 and set 20 Minutes into the Future. Much of it is still relatable, but even just over five years later it's managed to date itself to concepts that were popular in 2015. The greater public owns self-driving cars (which might yet become popular but were mostly put on hold just a few years later after killing and injuring a number of people during tests and early adoption); more glaring is a reference to Jaden Smith as an action star (now unlikely as his star has faded with several bombs and obvious evidence of his father's nepotism).

    2010s Live-Action TV 

-   Spike TV's failed 2011 pilot for _Alternate History_ explores a world where America lost the Second World War and came under the control of the Nazis. What puts it squarely into this trope is the conclusion, which predicts that the Nazis' iron-fisted police state will be eroded by the rise of the internet, enabling people across the continent to connect with each other, spread awareness of Nazi crimes, and organize protests. It's a heavy-handed reflection of the optimism surrounding social media and the tech industry at the turn of the decade, as well as the in-the-moment perception of The Arab Spring. Then there's the Nazi internet itself, which has glimpses of websites like "Fascpage" (but no equivalent to Twitter) and "Ask Himmler" (shown with equal prominance to "Goobbel").
-   _Arrowverse_: References to 2010 pop culture aside (starting from the first episode of _Arrow_ that makes jokes about _Lost)_ and then-president Obama, followed by the sister show _The Flash (2014)_ featuring a nerd among the main cast who regularly references _The Big Bang Theory_), the building blocks of the shows draw inspiration from the books DC Comics were putting out at the time and the general tone DC's editorial were pushing. _Arrow_ is a Darker and Edgier adaptation that focuses on a Younger and Hipper Oliver Queen (as he was in the New 52), that also downplayed the Green Arrow-Black Canary romance (at the time, the two were broken up), and Oliver's political opinions, which are almost all gone (New 52 Green Arrow was notably uncharacteristically apolitical). _The Flash_ similarly focuses on a Younger and Hipper Barry Allen (who was resurrected a few years prior and took lead focus away from his successor Wally West) and has his _The Flash: Rebirth_ backstory, while the extended Flash Family Demoted to Extra or unadapted (they were Exiled from Continuity at the time to maintain sole focus on Barry). _All_ of this would become awkward within their own lifetimes, as _DC Rebirth_ saw a return of Green Arrow's politics and the Arrow-Canary ship, while also seeing the return of Wally West and, later, the Flash Family. With _Infinite Frontier_ also seeing Wally West take over the mantle of the primary Flash, the show's continued use of Barry as the lead stands somewhat as The Artifact of the time it was created as a result.
-   A funny one occurred on _NCIS: Los Angeles_ when the subject of one episode involved Libyan government agents sent by Muammar Gaddafi killing a rebel propagandist and trying to use his identity to lure the rebel leadership into an ambush. Obviously written and filmed when the Libyan Civil War seemed (from the outside) to be deadlocked, by the time the episode aired on October 11, 2011, the rebels would be more properly called "the Libyan government", having been recognized as such internationally in September, with Gaddafi the one on the run who should be wary of ambushes (he would be captured and killed just nine days after the episode aired, on October 20). The references to The Arab Spring also clearly date the episode.
-   _House of Cards (US)_:
    -   Despite beginning in 2013, the show's portrayal of the US Congress was pretty clearly based on its makeup before 2010. Francis Underwood is initially portrayed as a "Blue Dog" Democrat<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  from South Carolina who serves as the Majority Whip of the House of Representatives since the Democrats are the majority party in the House when the show begins. The "wave" elections of 2010 and 2014 saw virtually all the Blue Dog Democrats swept from both chambers of Congress and replaced with Tea Party Republicans, and the Democratic Party wouldn't gain control of the House again until 2018, now dominated by unabashedly left-leaning figures.
    -   In general, some reviewers have argued that the show's depiction of American politics is pretty dated to the pre-Trump era. The show is known for its deeply cynical attitude towards the American Political System's "consensus politics" that followed the Cold War, generally portraying the Republican and Democratic parties as interchangeable groups of establishment figureheads who care more about money and power than about the people they're supposed to represent and only want to maintain the status quo at all costs. That attitude quickly went out of fashion as the Tea Party and Occupy movements that sprung up as a reaction to "neocons" and "neolibs" gained political influence and became finally obliterated after Donald Trump's highly controversial election and presidency brought political polarization to new heights and led to a new wave of active political engagement on both sides of the aisle.
    -   The presidential election in the middle of the fifth season (released in 2017) firmly weds it to the previous year's real-life presidential election, with the fictional FBI director stating that the bureau "would never involve itself in a presidential election" while all but staring into the camera.
    -   Walker's resignation at the end of season 2 while facing impeachment over a minor crime would be a hard sell after Donald Trump's impeachments in 2019 and 2021. Most people would think "Walker would never be impeached for such a small crime" (or at least "There's no way he would voluntarily resign") given the nature of the allegations against Trump, and the fact that his own party ultimately stood by him.
-   In season 2 of _The Middle_, Frankie obsesses over the "Royal Wedding" of William and Kate, firmly fixing the episode in 2011.
-   While _Broad City_ has a semi-gentrified aesthetic that could date it badly, there are a few moments that stand out as very 2010s:
    -   In a Season 1 episode, Lincoln tells a gay character "I'm not getting married until everyone can get married", dating it to before 2015.
    -   The montage in the first episode of Season 3 features Abby wearing a white and gold dress at the same time as Ilana wearing a blue and black dress, referencing a meme that was mostly popular in early 2015.
    -   A Season 3 episode shows Ilana temporarily working at Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign headquarters, instantly dating the episode to 2016.
    -   A couple of episodes in Season 4 immediately date to 2017: In the first instance, Ilana gets upset when she has to remove her impractical Obama-themed nails ("It's like they're leaving office all over again!"). She then realizes in the latter episode that she hadn't been able to have an orgasm since Trump was elected. Speaking of the Donald, his name is censored every time it's spoken aloud for the entire season.
-   The pilot of _Terriers_ has a smartphone with a sex tape on it as a MacGuffin, and the novelty of it being able to record video is repeatedly remarked upon, putting it firmly in the tail end of the 2000s/beginning of the 2010s.
-   In _Warehouse 13_, practically everybody's cellphone is a BlackBerry, and there's a noticeable shift from using the ones with tactile switch keypads to touchscreen phones between seasons 3 and 4, firmly rooting the series in the early 2010s when BlackBerry began to abandon its flagship product. There are more intentional references to the time period, like the "Got Your Six" lapel pins, Pete and Claudia's fondness of internet memes, and of course newspaper dates, but the transition from cellphones to smartphones was something the writers couldn't have planned for.
-   _Parks and Recreation_:
    -   The Season 2 episode "Sister City" features a group of delegates from Venezuela visiting Pawnee as part of an exchange program, with the episode openly mocking Venezuela's then-President Hugo Chávez. Chávez died in office just four years after that episode aired, instantly dating it. The same episode subtly references the Venezuelan economic boom that occurred during Chávez' tenure, with the delegation frequently bragging about their town's prosperity, and showing off their wealth by spending money in frivolous ways; this instantly became dated after Venezuela's economy collapsed during Nicolás Maduro's presidency, and the country's economic hardships subsequently became the subject of many headlines.
    -   In general, the show's characters and premise are a pretty good encapsulation of the social and political climate of America in the early-2010s. The cheery bureaucrat Leslie Knope is largely a poster girl for Obama\-era liberalism, to the point that she keeps a portrait of then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton framed in her office. Her boss Ron Swanson, meanwhile, is largely reflective of America's then-burgeoning libertarian bloc, which championed "small government" conservatism while supporting socially liberal policies (particularly LGBT rights). Both factions took a pretty big beating in the following years, as the libertarians were (for the moment) eclipsed by the rise of a more reactionary brand of conservative populism with the Tea Party-led 2014 midterm elections and Donald Trump's 2016 campaign, while Leslie's idol Hillary Clinton faced an unexpected challenge from the progressive movement led by Bernie Sanders and was eventually defeated by Trump in one of the biggest political upsets in American history. But this in turn _has_ been somewhat subverted (at least for Leslie's side) as of 2020, when Leslie's _other_ favorite politician, then-Vice President Joe Biden, ran and won against Trump, albeit with slightly more progressive policies than Obama (largely due to the influence of progressives such as Sanders and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez on the party platform).
    -   The Season 2 episode "Tom's Divorce" (released in 2009) has a joke about Ron being out of touch with popular culture when he tells Tom, who's down in the dumps after realizing he genuinely does like his wife Wendy (who was only in it as a Citizenship Marriage) to "Take it down a notch. You've already won your Oscar, Di Caprio," with the joke being that Leonardo DiCaprio was one the most infamous examples of being repeatedly snubbed at the Oscars. This, of course, became Hilarious in Hindsight in 2016, when DiCaprio finally won it for _The Revenant_.
-   _Portlandia_, as explained in this article by William Hughes of _The AV Club_, was firmly rooted in a period of Obama-era liberal optimism, and in affectionately parodying the hipster culture of the time. Notably, the last couple of seasons wound up dealing with the growing cynicism and reactionary politics that eventually gave way to the Trump era.
-   One of the questions on _QI_ was "what has twenty legs, five heads, and can't reach its own nuts?" Jeremy Clarkson answers "Westlife", a reference outdated enough not to get the klaxon; Jimmy Carr's answer, One Direction, does. In time, both answers will be equally outdated.
-   _Scream Queens (2015)_'s second season heavily dates itself to 2016. They range from the superficial — a Take That! to _Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice_ and Denise dressing up as the Khaleesi for Halloween — to the major. Denise goes into a coma and wakes up asking how Hillary Clinton is doing as the first female president — as the series aired while the presidential election was going on.
-   Just as much as the original, the 2010s relaunch of _Whose Line Is It Anyway?_ is loaded with topical references. Especially notable is a "Scenes From a Hat" segment where one scene is "Facts you wish weren't true." Ryan Stiles simply says loudly and firmly, "The news,"<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  takes a bow, and Aisha instantly moves to the next scene as if no one could possibly top that.
-   _Last Man Standing_. _Vox_ TV critic/reviewer Emily VanDerWerff described it as a modern-day _All in the Family_ in how it encapsulated the Angry White Man mindset of the 2010s in the form of Tim Allen's protagonist Mike Baxter, a conservative, Archie Bunker-esque, "man's man" suburban dad who finds himself increasingly confounded by a world whose changing social mores seem to be leaving men like him behind.
-   _Person of Interest_, with government surveillance central to its premise, could only have come out (at least as it did) in a narrow band of years around 2011 – long enough after 9/11 for the backstory to work, but before the Edward Snowden revelations. A first-season episode feels like a Ripped from the Headlines version of the Snowden case but predates it by over a year.
-   _Silicon Valley_ was Mike Judge's satire of the titular tech industry hub as it existed in the 2010s, and as the decade wore on (as noted in this 2019 article by Fahrad Manjoo for _The New York Times_), not only did it reflect the shift in attitudes that people had towards that industry, it frequently referenced and parodied the scandals that caused that shift. When the show premiered in 2014, it presented its protagonists more or less sympathetically, as geniuses on the path to success whose lives within the cultural bubble that was Silicon Valley made them, their puffed-up egos, and their antisocial behavior merely quirky. By the time of the show's final season in 2019, when tech companies ranging from giants like Facebook and Amazon to unicorn startups like Uber and WeWork had been battered by a seemingly ceaseless tide of controversy, its tone, while still comedic, was a lot less sympathetic to its characters. Their idealistic attitude about saving the world through technology was portrayed as increasingly hollow, easily discarded, and perhaps misguided from the start, and the question was not if their start-up company Pied Piper would be successful, but when and how it would all come crashing down.
-   _Glee_. Though there were plenty of songs that were dated when they were performed on the show, the use of music that had just gotten big (or in some cases, music that got big from being on the show) firmly entrenches each season in the years it came out. Beyond that, the pop culture references and optimistic outlook very much reflect the Obama era surrounding it similar to _Parks and Rec_ above.
-   An episode of the first series of _Rev._ managed to become this _between filming and broadcast_. The plot of the episode revolved around Adam becoming jealous of a fellow reverend with a high media profile and trying to build one himself by appearing on _The One Show_ (an early evening Magazine Show in the UK), with presenters Adrian Chiles and Christine Bleakley appearing As Themselves. Unfortunately, several months before the episode was broadcast, Chiles and Bleakley both defected to rival network ITV and were no longer presenting the show by the time it aired.
-   _Girls_: The show's at-the-time groundbreaking portrayal of social media use is very firmly planted in the late-2000s/early-2010s. In addition to the obviously dated page layouts and features, platforms like Facebook and Twitter are portrayed as the main social media outlets for young people. Moreover, they are shown as being used mainly for socializing with friends and maybe getting your name out professionally - with nary a politician, viral “news” article, or conspiracy theorist in sight. Today, with social media being much more politicized and more about content creation/consumption than actually socializing with people (not to mention, many teens and 20-somethings have since abandoned Facebook and Twitter for platforms like Discord, TikTok and Twitch), the show’s portrayal of its use comes off as incredibly dated.

    2010s Music 

-   "#SELFIE" by The Chainsmokers is ingrained with early-mid 2010s culture, with lyrics about taking selfies with Instagram (Specifically Instagram circa 2014. It is normal for a trendy young person to just post a casual spur-of-the-moment selfie, with the obsessive Instagram culture that exists), "Summertime Sadness" and referring to another girl as "ratchet".
-   ”I Took a Pill in Ibiza” by Mike Posner. In the first verse, he says he did this to “show Avicii he was cool”. Avicii committed suicide four years after this song was released.
-   "Gun Fight" by Sick Puppies references the American presidents Bush and Obama, which pins the song firmly from the late 2000s to early 2010s.
-   "Cost of Livin'" by Ronnie Dunn (2011) fell into this, as the hook mentions "Three dollars and some change at the pump / The cost of livin's high and goin' up", and even has an edit that says "four dollars". The song's premise of an older man pleading for a job is clearly a reflection of the zeitgeist of the Great Recession. In addition, the national US average for a gallon of gas fell into the $2.00-$2.50 range soon after. Though by 2022 it became somewhat less dated, with inflation in the US reaching levels not seen in four decades and average US gas prices over $3 per gallon (and well over $4 in some places).
-   "Beauty and a Beat" by Justin Bieber has the line "We gonna party like it's 3012 tonight." Three guesses when the song was made, and the first two don't count.
-   Though not within the normal 10-year cutoff, the 2017 anti-suicide song “1-800-273-8255”, by Logic featuring Alessia Cara and Khalid, qualifies because the title was then the actual phone number for the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline in the US. While the number remains in service for that very purpose, it was superseded in July 2022 by the three-digit code 9-8-8.

    2010s Video Games 

-   _The Binding of Isaac_ is filled with references to memes of the 2000s/early 2010s, which become increasingly out of place as _Rebirth_'s expansions continued throughout the 2010s. Rage faces are found frequently and one of the items is literally just Shoop Da Whoop (and this item _also_ has a chance of being dropped by a miniboss that has a permanent trollface for his expression), both of which are memes that had generally fallen out of style in the Internet's eyes even when _Afterbirth+_ came out.
-   _Call of Duty: Black Ops II_:
    -   One level is set on a luxurious floating city, with all sorts of the game's crazy-futuristic 2025 technology present both in the city's security and the player's covert military tech... and a dance floor filled with people dancing to (and later infiltrators shooting it out to) dubstep from Skrillex, a reflection of the mainstream popularity of electronic dance music (especially dubstep, the genre Skrillex was famous for) at the time of the game's 2012 release.
    -   The presence of David Petraeus as the Secretary of Defense became dated very quickly as the game was released three days after he resigned from his position as CIA Director.
    -   The President is portrayed as not only being female but as a clear-cut Expy of Hillary Clinton, making it clear who they thought would be the president down the line, as it was widely believed she would be the next after Obama, only for her to lose the 2016 election.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   The YouTube and Twitter interfaces depicted in the game now look very old with the two websites having updated its user interfaces several times by now.
-   _Death Road to Canada_ contains multiple references to Barack Obama, who was president at the time of the game's release.
    
    **Low Wits Character:** Thanks a lot zombie Obama.
    
-   _Far Cry 3_, released in 2012, features a dubstep-heavy soundtrack (especially in the "Kick the Hornet's Nest" quest, which incorporated a reggae-dubstep soundtrack to accompany burning marijuana fields with a flamethrower) and the main cast of privileged twentysomethings who could be seen as a commentary on then-sprouting "Instagram culture". The game also makes several references to _Alice in Wonderland_, a reflection of the Grimmification that was popular in the era. Furthermore, the description for the Z93 makes a reference to FPSRussia, a then-prominent gun-focused YouTube personality who fell by the wayside in the mid-late 2010s after the rise of other gun channels and a slew of legal troubles that effectively killed the channel.
-   _Forza Horizon_, released in 2012, has a rather tragic example of this that happened right from the get-go. The soundtrack features two songs from Lostprophets (namely, "Bring 'Em Down" and "We Bring an Arsenal"), something that would be unthinkable just a few months later, where frontman Ian Watkins was arrested, charged, and sentenced to 35 years in prison for child molestation. The electronic station Horizon Bass Arena is filled with brostep music that was very popular at the time but has since fallen out of style (Bass Arena in later games switched to house music and electronica to keep current), making listening to it now feel like a product of the time. In addition, the DJ on the rock station makes a crack about the Mayan Doomsday when discussing Darius Flynt's success in the competition, firmly pegging the game to the early 2010s when that was the subject of a great deal of media attention.
-   _Jurassic Park: The Game_ is mostly pretty good about avoiding this, but one thing that pins its release date _specifically_ to the year 2011 is the fact that the accompanying manual claims _Torosaurus_ is the mature form of _Triceratops_. This was a short-lived, controversial theory that briefly gained mainstream attention while the game was in development.
-   _Pom Gets Wi Fi_ is filled to the brim with memes that were popular on Tumblr in 2013, making it extremely dated to anyone who played it even a year later.
-   _KanColle_ has a few lines uttered by ship girls that make references to Japanese pop culture when it first came out (2013), instantly dating itself to the very year. One of the characters makes a vague reference to _Waratte Iitomo_, a popular TV show that aired at noon. The show ended a year after the game was released. Oops. This also counts as an Early-Installment Weirdness, however, as subsequently added characters and additional lines to existing ones make little to no pop-culture references.
-   _Watch\_Dogs 2_ was noted for this before it even came out. Given how reliant its story is on Ripped from the Headlines references to Silicon Valley tech culture, contemporary political and cultural controversies (especially concerning the impending Presidential election), and people like Martin Shkreli and Brock Turner, it is a game that is set in, and could _only_ have been set in, the San Francisco Bay Area in the spring/summer of 2016.
-   Due to the user-generated nature of the game's content, many older _Roblox_ places arguably fall under this trope. Many games from the late 2000s and early 2010s are a time capsule of whatever internet memes were popular at the time of their creation, most frequently Justin Bieber, _Rage Comics_, and Leet Lingo.
-   _Saints Row: The Third_, in the same vein as its predecessor was to 2008, is obviously dated to its 2011 release despite its apparent setting being much further than that (in-game hints suggest it's 2014), particularly in the music and fashion. This is especially evident in the dedicated \[adult swim\] radio station, which as Product Placement is obviously dated to what was big (or existent) late in 2011.
    -   While several of the shows the songs come from continued running for several years afterwards (_The Venture Brothers_ until 2018, _Squidbillies_ until 2021) or are otherwise still relevant from reruns, the station's host is Jon from _Delocated_, a show that technically ended less than six months later, and several of the songs are either from or otherwise related to shows that stopped producing new episodes not too long afterwards, including:
        -   "Sports" from _Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great Job!_, which ended in 2010.
        -   A remix of the _Aqua Teen Hunger Force_ theme — even the show itself had stopped using the theme earlier in that year after it started renaming itself with each new season until it ended in 2015.
        -   Cheesburger's "Winner", owing to their composing the theme song for _Superjail!_, which ended in 2014.
        -   Odd Future's "Anarchy", foreshadowing for _Loiter Squad_, which hadn't even begun airing at that point (and would go on to only air for two years before Odd Future moved on).
        -   Dethklok's "The Cyborg Slayers" — while the real people masquerading as the band are still making music, the show in question ended regular seasons in 2012.
        -   And DangerDOOM's "Basket Case", the most dated of all, being made in 2005 and with voice clips from a show that had stopped airing, much less producing new episodes, years before the game's release.
    -   Conversely, several more recent and wildly successful shows or programming blocks, like the Toonami revival (mid-2012) or _Rick and Morty_ (late 2013), are conspicuous in their complete absence.
    -   Despite trading the crime story for an over-the-top Super Hero sci-fi comedy, _Saints Row IV_ manages to be just as dated as _Saints Row 2_ was at the time of the game's 2013 release.
        -   The game features _two_ radio stations dedicated to Dubstep and trap EDM, one of them themed after Diplo's Mad Decent label. The former was at its commercial peak during the game's Troubled Production<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  while the latter was just starting to overtake the commercial "brostep" sound in mainstream EDM circles. It even features a dubstep gun, directly modelled off a viral video by Corridor Digital.
        -   The game in general pastiches and parodies multiple franchises that were popular during the early 2010s. The superpowers harken towards _\[PROTOTYPE\]_ and _Crackdown_, while the Saints' spaceship and the loyalty missions (and optional romance) with your crew after breaking them out of the villain's simulation are reminiscent of _Mass Effect_. The prologue, named "Zero Saints Thirty", is a spot-on parody of _Call of Duty_ and the glut of military-themed shooters in its wake, with linear, setpeace-heavy, and cover-driven gameplay. One DLC pack, "GATV", pokes fun at the game's biggest competitor, which also launched in 2013 but would not receive a PC version for two years. Another features the cast of _Hey Ash, Whatcha Playin'?_ as DLC, a series that has since largely been Overshadowed by Controversy in the wake of Anthony Burch's personal troubles. The Steam version even threw in as a Pre-Order Bonus weapons from _Team Fortress 2_, as the game was still Valve's main cash cow at the time.
-   _Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception_, which came out in November 2011, takes place mostly in Syria and Yemen, which are portrayed as (relatively) stable, peaceful countries. The game was not changed in any way to reflect The Arab Spring, which began in the midst of the game's development in late 2010/early 2011 and has left both countries embroiled in conflict and civil war ever since.
-   _Playstation All Stars Battle Royale_ is very much rooted in 2012, given the presence of a number of franchises that were major players in that era, but have declined, had major overhauls, or fallen into obscurity since then. The biggest is the reboot version of Dante, whose game underperformed significantly the following year, but similar things could be said of the heavy representation given to _Infamous_, _Killzone_, or _LittleBigPlanet_, none of whom fared especially well after 2012. The lack of _Crash Bandicoot_ or _Spyro the Dragon_ representation, which was controversial but somewhat understandable considering their respective low ebbs at the time, looks downright nonsensical after the smash success of their respective remakes. Conversely, Sir Daniel Fortesque's appearance made little sense at the time (a decently big name on the PlayStation in his day, to be sure, but his last original outing was in early 2000) but would turn out to be oddly prophetic years later.
-   Much like _Playstation All-Stars_, _LEGO Dimensions_ is rooted in its 2015-2017 lifespan. While the game does feature properties with active presence in pop-culture like _Adventure Time_, _The Lord of the Rings_, _Sonic the Hedgehog_,_Scooby-Doo_, _Mission: Impossible_, _Portal_ and _Ghostbusters_, as well as classic properties like _Back to the Future_, _Beetlejuice_, _Gremlins_ and _The Goonies_, other properties have declined, fallen into obscurity or endured major overhauls, examples being _The Powerpuff Girls_ content being based on the 2016 reboot and eventually forgotten; _The LEGO Movie_, which is represented by the first film and _The LEGO Batman Movie_, has been mishandled in its later years to the point where Warner Bros. sold the film rights to Universal; the _Jurassic Park_ content is limited to 2015's _Jurassic World_, with no mention of the later follow-ups _Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom_ and _Jurassic World Dominion_; _The Simpsons_ had its owner, 20th Century Fox, being sold to Disney, and rebranded as 20th Century Studios; _Ghostbusters_ is represented by its controversial 2016 reboot; and the _Fantastic Beasts_ franchise is only represented by _Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them_, with no mention of its follow-ups _The Crimes of Grindelwald_ or _The Secrets of Dumbledore_, not to mention more recent controversies with series creator J.K. Rowling that would have ensured the game would accrue controversy if it so much as _mentioned_ the series five years later.
-   This phenomenon is largely considered to be the reason why _Dikembe Mutombo's 4½ Weeks to Save the World_ was pulled from the Old Spice website (and effectively scrubbed from the internet, barring unofficial fan backups) after its completion. The premise of the game is that the Mayan prophecies of the world being destroyed in 2012 will come true unless former NBA player Dikembe Mutombo can stop a series of events that will bring about its fulfillment. The game is dependent on events that took place in 2012, including the then-looming U.S. fiscal cliff deadline extension, the glut of teen horror movies like _Twilight_, the state of Florida constantly accruing errors in the voting process during the 2012 election campaign, Kate Middleton's pregnancy and the (short-lived) closing of Hostess, complete with a character singing a mournful melody for its failure (the company would relaunch and bring its products back to shelves just weeks later).
-   The BoxxyQuest games suffer of this because they rely an awful lot on the Internet culture back then when the games were released: ranging from the real life persons appearing in the work (Ray William Johnson and PewDiePie being the big bad bosses of YouTube by the virtue of having the most subscribers back then, moot still being in charge of keeping the 4Chan chuckleheads in line despite having stepped down from the site in 2015), the inspiration of some of the places visited (Chapter 5 being greatly influenced by Creepypastas despite those having suffered a steep decline since the mid-2010s and by the 2020s the only ones still made being troll posts), and trends that were making new waves (Feminist Frequency's Anita Sarkeesian as an insane cult leader using her army of Social Justice Warriors to take over Tumblr to establish a feminist dictatorship, parodying what people _thought_ she was actually trying to do) just to name a few. Hilariously, some of the criticisms by the game are still valid (Reddit's obsession over upvotes is still terrible, so is YouTube's administration in general and GameFAQs' moderation being both overbearing and ineffectual, etc.), which says more about those sites than it does about the game.
-   _Pocket Planes_: Released in 2012, the trivia entry for Taipei lists Taipei 101 as the 2nd tallest building in the world. It has since fallen lower on the list, with Merdeka 118 being the 2nd tallest building as of 2023.
-   _Cities: Skylines_: Released in 2015, the game's mascot, Chirpy, is obviously inspired by Twitter's bird logo. Since Elon Musk purchased Twitter in 2022 and rebranded the website as "X" in 2023, the Twitter bird has been retired, though _Cities: Skylines 2_, despite being released a few months after Twitter's rebranding as X, still retains the Chirpy mascot for use for its in-game Twitter/X-like feeds.

    2010s Web Original 

-   This trope is lampshaded by Matt and Pat of _Two Best Friends Play_ during their playthrough of _Resident Evil 4_. Early on Matt talks about how early previews of _The Evil Within_ have been rather mixed during the PAX video game convention in spring 2014, and then says afterward "oh, wow, this is going to be weird to watch in a few years." Later when Matt brings up a then-current event of Vince McMahon having lost millions of dollars, Pat comments "wow, you're really dating this video now." They even eventually make a comment on how the game manages to date itself with a line about how the word "terrorism" is "such a popular word these days" (Resident Evil 4 came out in 2005 when the War on Terror was still pretty relevant).
-   _Kickassia_ features The Nostalgia Chick as a parody of Sarah Palin in her role as Vice President of the titular microstate — which some critics derided as dated even when it was first released (in mid-2010).
-   _The Nostalgia Chick_:
    -   Her overview of the _My Little Pony_ franchise in February 2010 is instantly dated to before _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_, which came out that October, was made. A big part of the review is her comparing _My Little Pony_ to _Transformers_ in that the latter had recognizable and identifiable characters, whereas the former was made up of interchangeable toys that girls liked to customize. One of the reasons _Friendship is Magic_ was such a success is _because_ of its developed and fleshed-out characters. What's more is that Lindsay does not mention the "Brony" phenomenon, which would have been a big talking point had the review been done after the show had started.
    -   Her video list of the "Worst (and Least Awful) Female Superhero Movies" shows that it was made before the Marvel Cinematic Universe had really taken off. It was uploaded in mid-2012, right around the time _The Avengers_ was released. Notably, she doesn't talk about the controversy about Black Widow not having her own movie or the fact that she's suspiciously left out of merchandise — or the similar issues with Gamora for the _Guardians of the Galaxy (2014)_ movie. Conversely, the Smurfette Breakout of Peggy Carter — who got an expanded role in the comics, a short film and her own TV series — is not mentioned at all. Lindsay also talks about the Development Hell of the Wonder Woman movie — which was finally released five years later to worldwide acclaim. And overall the video shows it was made before the likes of _The Hunger Games_ (slightly after, in this case), _Divergent_, _Snow White & the Huntsman_ and other movies helped to make female-led action movies more accepted by the mainstream.
-   _The Onion_: This article from 2013, a mocking commentary "by" Donald Trump, is centered on the notion that the then-host of _The Apprentice_ would soon begin a rapid decline and fall out of the spotlight as he becomes a "pathetically impotent, papery husk of a once-powerful man." By the fourth anniversary of the article's publication, Trump had been inaugurated as the President of the United States — something that the authors of the article clearly never imagined. The article was irreversibly dated to the period between 2008-2015 when Trump was most famous for being a reality show host and real estate mogul, as well as his promotion of conspiracy theories surrounding Barack Obama. Technically, however, everything in the article still has the potential to become reality; just with radically different contexts surrounding Trump.
-   _The Arctic Lizard_, a satirical online short story by Israeli author Etgar Keret, unfortunately, falls into this. The story on its own is well written, but the massive amount of references to concerns in 2016 immediately dates it to that year. The story takes place in a dystopian future, during Donald Trump's third term as US president, where after a war with Mexico (which leads to World War III), the government has set up a military unit composed exclusively of teenagers. While Trump did get elected and fears of war were widespread, these mostly had to do with North Korea and Russia, as after Trump's election, Mexico made it clear that they didn't actually consider him a threat at all, meaning that a war would be unnecessary. As the story progresses, it is revealed that to get children to join the army, the government set up "Destromons Go", a thinly-veiled parody of _Pokémon GO_ (which is still popular today, but not to the same extent as when it was first released in 2016) and spawned extremely rare and powerful monsters at specific battle sites (with the titular Arctic Lizard being one that the protagonist has). As many were exasperated with the game's fanbase during its run, leading to a stereotype of the game's players being Too Dumb to Live people caring only about Pokémon, the story also contains multiple jabs towards the game, especially at the climax, where the protagonist manages to successfully finish off the second-in-command of Al Qaeda but is quickly forgotten after his unit learns that one of the other soldiers found a rare monster at the same site.
-   _Homestuck_ tends to fall into this trope, both because the story was essentially a long conversation with its author and the audience, and because the comic itself was heavily shaped by internet culture (which changes very rapidly), with a large chunk of the story being told through online interactions between the characters. Earlier Call Backs and gags came from Hussie's writings in the early 2000s, but a good chunk of the story was written in the 2010s. As a result, many references both significant and otherwise became outdated. Whenever kids talk about Discredited Memes, they usually mention that the joke fell out of favor a few years before the start of the comic (2009). Music acts like the Insane Clown Posse are major characters or serve as inspirations for how other characters act. A character based on the mid-2010s perception of Tumblr, a segment where dialog is done in the style of Twitter posts with once-popular feed Horse\_Ebooks immortalized as a steady stream of nonsense before its creator revealed it to be part of an Alternate Reality Game, a major villain based on mid-2010s urban culture (and somehow manages to use Blingee on real-life objects), and the credits told in Snapchat photos all point to the 2010-2016 era of internet shenanigans. The extremely interactive meta-narrative of the story can also point to this era, as a lot of contemporary media at this time had some sort of self-aware, Troperiffic angle to it.
-   "4chumblr" was a meme that arose from the Fandom Rivalry between 4chan and Tumblr. It featured Anthropomorphic Personifications of the sites. However, at the time Tumblr was a relatively new and niche website most well-known for its hipster and fashion blogs run by 20-somethings. While Tumblr still has a strong fashion blog fanbase, the image of the website has changed drastically. It's more associated with political, LGBT, and fandom blogs run by young teens joining those 20-somethings on the site. Not to also mention, in late 2018, many users began a mass migration away from Tumblr due to an incredibly controversial 18+ content ban. This would lead to the fall of Tumblr's popularity.
-   Due to its once-per-year update schedule (normally being a Halloween special), early episodes of _Hellsing Ultimate Abridged_ became these as time wore on, due to their reference-heavy humor. Episodes 1 to 4, in particular, tend to show off the style of humor and references that were popular in the year they were released in, with references to several properties that were popular or had a ton of attention at the time, including _Twilight_, _Portal_, _Epic Meal Time_, and _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_. Takahata101 even considers the _Epic Meal Time_ reference cringeworthy because of it, and KaiserNeko isn't a fan of their portrayal of Rip Van Winkle (a meme-spouting Attention Whore Soapbox Sadie who is essentially a giant Take That! to 2013 Tumblr), considering it to be an Old Shame. Indeed, in the marathon that aired prior to the grand finale, Taka and Kaiser both iterated that they considered Episodes 2 and 4 to be peak cringe for the series.
-   The Cinema Snob frequently derides the porn parodies produced by the Wood Rocket company (mostly made around the mid-2010s) for, among numerous other reasons, constantly invoking this trope with lots of of-the-moment jokes that age poorly. A notable example is _Gnardians of the Galaxy_, in which the "Drax" parody makes fun of the DC Extended Universe for not making a _Wonder Woman_ movie — by the time of the Snob review, _Wonder Woman (2017)_ was just weeks from release, a fact which the Snob was more than happy to snark on.
-   Bob Chipman discussed this trope in this episode of _The Big Picture_, dedicated to the movies, good and bad, that he felt defined and best reflected the culture of the 2010s. He brought up how "cultural decades" rarely correspond to the actual calendar years, noting how most of what pop culture remembers as "the '60s" came during the years 1964-72, treating the first third of the decade as an extension of the 1950s while spilling over into the 1970s, and how "the '70s" were more or less over by 1978 depending on where one lived.
-   _Free Spirit_ mostly averts this by using references to '70s and '80s pop culture to fit with the time period in which the show it adapts is set, but sometimes, then-current events are referenced to adapt the show to a modern setting:
    -   "I Love Bread" references the _13 Reasons Why_ controversy and has Oprah Winfrey's ad for Weight Watchers as a plot device. It also mentions _Cagney & Lacey_ airing on This TV in the middle of the night, a practice which stopped after StartTV got the rights to the show.
    -   "Robb's Not Dead" has a plot based on the Windows 10 Version 1809 update that deleted users' files.
    -   "Cartoon Brew" references Butch Hartman's _Noog Network_ streaming service and also features a parody of the _Thundercats Roar_ controversy using the Show Within a Show _Extreme Lips_.
-   Ironically for something intended to update _Seinfeld_ for The New '10s, many tweets by the Twitter account Seinfeld Today (aka Modern Seinfeld) fall into this. Some fall into this by default due to being centered around specific events and trends, while others are dated in other ways. One example is a Running Gag about Kramer's vehement dislike of then-mayor Michael Bloomberg's policies; Bloomberg would leave office in 2013.
-   Youtube Poop can occasionally run into this due to heavily relying on references, but other reasons can date it as well.

    2010s Western Animation 

-   _BoJack Horseman_: Each season draws heavily on the state of Hollywood at the exact time it was made. Especially noticeable is "Hank After Dark", a parody of the Bill Cosby affair that serves as a bitter condemnation of people's tendency to not care when beloved public figures are accused of sexual deviancy. Two years later, the #MeToo movement blew the lid off this kind of thing in a big way for many people.
-   Cartoon Network's _MAD_ (which ran from 2010 to 2013) fell into this, since many of its parodies were of then-recent pop culture artifacts, not just popular media of the time like _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_, _The Twilight Saga_, _Glee_, _Jersey Shore_, or _Avatar_, but media that was forgotten more quickly by the masses like _I Love You, Man_, _Whitney_, _I Hate My Teenage Daughter_, _Escape from Planet Earth_ or _Hop_. Its depictions of celebrities are also pretty dated, making fun of Justin Bieber when he was still a teenage heartthrob, Lady Gaga when she was known for her weird outfits, and Kristen Stewart's stoic attitude back when she was _only_ known as Bella Swan. Its recurrent gushing over Megan Fox didn't age too well either, as her sex symbol status and career would fade by the mid-2010s. The most striking example would be the final episode, which contained an extended parody of the sitcom _We Are Men_. That episode aired on December 2, 2013... almost two months after the sitcom it was based on ended, having crashed and burned after only two episodes.
-   _Fish Hooks_ has a few things that date it to the early 2010s. Many characters use flip phones, there's a character named Brandon Bubbler who is a parody of a young Justin Bieber, one episode called "Chicks Dig Vampires" is about Albert Glass pretending to be a vampire to win Esmargot's affections after seeing the girls get excited over teen vampire movies, clearly referencing the _Twilight_ craze of the late-2000s/early-2010s, another episode, "Oscar is a Playa", references "Inglip", a classic Rage Comics face. In one episode, Oscar and his friends read a magazine called "Nintankndo Power", a parody of _Nintendo Power_, which was discontinued in 2012.
-   The _Total Drama_ franchise was eventually canceled because of this trope. It was initially made as an animated parody of _Survivor_ as well as other similar reality TV game shows at the time. However, by the middle of the 2010s, reality TV was becoming much less popular, and while _Survivor_ is still running as of 2020, it's not as relevant to modern pop culture as it once was, thus making what _Total Drama_ was parodying in itself outdated. However, the series was Un-Cancelled in 2021, with the first of two new seasons being released two years later.
    -   In a more specific example, _Action_ (which aired in 2009) had many jokes about Courtney's personal digital assistant, a device that would become obsolete with the rise of smartphones.
-   _Teen Titans Go!_ has referenced several pieces of pop culture that would later become outdated within months to years after being broadcast:
    -   "Friendship" is a spoof of the Brony phenomena, dating itself mainly to the early half of the decade, as the fandom started to decrease in size once The Hub became Discovery Family.
    -   "Truth, Justice and What?" was created as a response to the resurgence in popularity of _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles_ due to the 2012 cartoon. Like the above example, this is something that was mostly a phenomenon in the earlier half of the decade, as newer shows such as _PAW Patrol_ and _The Loud House_ eventually took Nickelodeon's attention away from the franchise.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   "BBBDay!" had a subplot about how singing the "Happy Birthday" song will get you into legal trouble. Months after that episode aired, "Happy Birthday" was declared to be in the public domain.
    -   "Teen Titans Roar!" is a spoof of the _Thundercats Roar_ controversy that occurred in 2018 and was dated even when it came out since the episode premiered in 2020 when the Periphery Hatedom for _Thundercats Roar_ was beginning to die off.
    -   Several episodes reference then-popular dance moves like twerking (which also appears in _Teen Titans Go! To the Movies_) and flossing (during a musical number in "The Chaff").
-   The first season of _Animaniacs (2020)_ was written in 2018, and for many reasons society had already dramatically shifted during those two years. The show acknowledges this in the "Catch-up Song"; the Warner Siblings ask whether things in the real world still pertain to their 2018 script, such as whether Trump is still president,<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and eventually resort to making wild guesses as to what the future looks like. Despite this, there are a few pieces that slip by, which include the "Reboot It!" song mentioning _The X-Files_ and _Murphy Brown_, shows whose 2018 runs had ended prior to the year's end. The COVID-19 Pandemic also had a direct impact on the show, as it caused some of its segments to completely lose its relevancy in the process such as the one entitled "Gold Meddlers" that was written to tie in to the 2020 Olympics, which were postponed only 8 months prior to the show's debut, and the man-spreading-themed segment "Manny Manspeader," due to how the majority of U.S. theaters were still closed around that time, and the ones that weren't had to follow strict social distancing guidelines. Despite all of this, the List Song of all the First Ladies by Dot Warner<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  at least shows that Melania Trump's first term would end in 2020 (which could have just been added in at the last minute).
-   _The Amazing World of Gumball_ episode "The Copycats" revolves around the Wattersons dealing with a Chinese family copying everything they do. A key plot point is that the Chinese family has an equivalent of everyone in the Watterson family except Anais. At the time it was produced, China was enforcing a policy limiting families to only have two children, and daughters tended to be aborted as sons were preferred. This policy came to effect in 2016, so it was still relevant when the episode premiered in 2017. This lasted until May 31st, 2021 when China proclaimed they've updated their policy to allow three-child families. However, this episode was a deliberate Take That! at a series of Chinese advertisements that ripped off the series, and the knockoff family was a one-to-one parody of those ads.
-   Much like the DC Animated Universe was for DC in the 1990s and early 2000s, _The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes_, which ran from 2010-2012, is a glimpse of a different, pre-_The Avengers (2012)_ Marvel than what'd come afterward: Hank Pym and Janet van Dyne are main characters, Black Widow is only a recurring character, Carol Danvers is called "Ms. Marvel" and not "Captain Marvel", Loki is an unrependent villain, and several characters (including Kamala Khan, Miles Morales, and Spider-Gwen) don't appear, the Guardians of the Galaxy behave professionally, and characters related to the X-Men and Fantastic Four made guest appearances and cameos.

    2010s Other 

-   "Sheen or Gaddafi?" was an informal trivia game where participants would try to guess whose mouth a crazy quote came out of. It was popular in the year 2011 when both men were front page news due to the former having an extremely well-publicized battle with both addiction and CBS' higher-ups and the latter engaging in very brutal attempts to suppress dissent, leading to more attention given to self-aggrandizing, delusional, and just plain bizarre statements they'd made. Nowadays, few people talk about or even remember these weird comments, and so the game has faded into obscurity.

___

### Possibly Instantly Dated:

-   The 1931 film _Blonde Crazy_ involves a pair of con artists getting into and out of various other scams with other con artists. In one scene, the male lead's con artist buddy tries to get him to join in a Scamming the Bereaved con. The items being sold to the recently bereaved are...good luck swastikas.
-   Cecil B. DeMille's _This Day And Age_ (1933): A group of boys take over a small town for a day. Innocuous enough, until a gangster murders their Jewish friend. Complaining that the law won't punish the criminal, they form a mob to capture him, even _torturing him over a rat pit_, an action the film endorses. Then they gather around a bonfire and sing patriotic songs. Thanks to its Unfortunate Implications, the movie was banned in several European countries for "strong Fascist tendencies" and has become virtually impossible to see today. Besides the movie's fascist implications, its celebration of teenaged vigilantes also became Harsher in Hindsight after the Brooke Hart incident that same year, where a lynch mob made up mostly of college students stormed a jail where two murder suspects were held and hanged them.
-   _Kitty Foyle_ (produced in 1940, but based on a 1939 novel) is soaked in 1930s sexism, which began to look extremely dated after America entered the war following Pearl Harbor. Kitty lives in an apartment building where men aren't even allowed to visit. Her co-workers yammer on about how all they want is a man. Her handsome doctor suitor, who is meant to be the more sympathetic choice in the Love Triangle that forms the plot, plays solitaire with her on their first "date" as a test to make sure she isn't a Gold Digger. When he sees Kitty's less attractive roommates, he says "I've seen better specimens in a glass jar."

-   Some Jerk with a Camera's "_Sabrina_ Goes To Disney World" episode frequently references specific ads that were commonly played on the video's host site Blip.tv during Fall 2013 to January 2014, such as "Towin' in a Winter Wonderland" and "Blue Shield Floating Latina Mom Head". Quite unfortunately for him, these ads were switched for new ones the same day that the episode was put up, dating it from the very start.
-   The song "Fake Fine" by Robert Grace dates itself to the first half of the COVID-19 Pandemic by including the line "I'm feeling great like Carole Baskin / Hope you know it's all an act / 'Cause it's so much easier to lie", referencing the then-current popularity of _Tiger King_ and the conspiracy theory regarding the disappearance of Baskin's husband that gained steam around this time. The chorus contains the words "it's a pandemic, it's a fucking disease", which would sound like a simple metaphor rather than an explicit comparison to the pandemic had the song been released earlier. Similarly, there's also the line "'Cause when you're sober, you just wanna stay at home", which can also be intepreted as referring to the pandemic.
-   The 2021 anime film _Words Bubble Up Like Soda Pop_ was _already_ dated at release, as a major plot point had one of the main characters wear a mask everywhere, which is noted to be unusual, to cover up her braces and buckteeth. The movie was originally scheduled for release in May 2020 but delayed repeatedly for over a year by the COVID-19 Pandemic, which also turned mask-wearing into a global fact of life, thus instantly dating the movie to the pre-COVID times.
-   Eminem's "Gnat" is a goofy Boastful Rap in which Eminem compares himself to the COVID-19 Pandemic, in which (in a Metaphorgotten context) he expresses misery at the lockdown and has faith that the vaccine will come soon and end the nightmare. The song was released on 18th December 2020, only a couple of weeks before America's mass COVID vaccination program began. It also contains coded references to Eminem's loathing of the Donald Trump administration and therefore his grudging support of the Democrats (in which he implies a lack of investment in Biden himself, but claims to be "ride or die for The Squad"), which connects to the song going out at the same time as the Biden 2020 campaign released an ad using Eminem's classic "Lose Yourself", which at the time was seen as a shocking endorsement from an artist extremely protective of his brand. Biden would assume office just over a month later.
-   While _Bluey_ is pretty good about keeping things timeless, the episode "Movies" features an example. A trailer ahead of the movie Bandit takes Bluey and Bingo to has a release date of April 2020; placing it right before the COVID-19 Pandemic caused numerous films to change their release schedule or shift to streaming and VOD. The episode itself aired in October of that year in Australia before being delayed to early 2021 in the US.
-   The canceled New Warriors lineup of Marvel comics fell into this with the teaser trailer garnering lots of flak for the concept of superheroes based around so-called woke buzzwords would have made this a period piece.
-   Joked about in Foxcade's _Devil May Cry_ Special Edition retrospective from Feburary 2021, in which he makes an offhand reference to Redditors buying up stock in GameStop en masse, putting hedge funds that were banking on the company failing into billions of dollars worth of debt, which was a major news story the month before. He immediately follows it with a caption reading "Super timely, not at all aged joke".
-   _Freefall_ ran into this with an April 2022 strip where Sam suggests that Niomi could pay Florence's salary while they're on the space station by minting an NFT of Florence's card as the first AI in a union, a plan that Niomi considers underhanded and sneaky but workable. The real-life NFT market cratered not long afterwards.

___