Well, this makes worshiping at her feet easier.

_"Once I have embraced my powers, I knew that Vorador was correct. We are_ gods — **dark** gods _— and it our duty to_ thin the herd!_"_

When you've got a large group of intelligent predators, there's usually someone they have to answer to. With vampires, this is usually a queen or a king. Often, all the vampires in the world are descended from them. They sometimes come with spouse, though it's becoming more rare in recent years.

They're almost always the most powerful of their kind, because they have to have kept their throne somehow. If not, they almost certainly have the loyalty of those who are, or can control the minds of their progeny.

Dracula is a popular choice, as are Biblical baddies like Lilith and Cain. Often in fiction, when a vampire turns a person into one of them, the new vampire is subservient to the creator, resulting in a sort of hierarchical family tree of vampires owing their allegiance back to the originator, who rules them all. A common variant has it that destroying a given vampire reverts all those turned by him back to human (or just kills them).

You _will_ do what they say, or face dire consequences. Because after all, doesn’t a parent know what's best for their children?

Kingdoms they rule over will probably be Überwald

Sometimes crosses over into Cute Monster Girl for the queens.

A Sub-Trope of Our Vampires Are Different, Hive Queen, Evil Matriarch and God Save Us from the Queen!.

Compare Vampires Are Rich, Monster Lord, Monster Progenitor, The Necrocracy, and Supernatural Elite.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   In _Blood+_, Diva and Saya are Chiropteran queens. In this case they're born chiropterans, twins that a previous queen gives birth to, and fathered by one of that queen's sister's chevaliers. Other chiropterans, including chevaliers, are created by infecting a human with chiropteran blood. Interestingly, the blood of a chiropteran queen is extremely dangerous to that queen's sister and any derivative chiropterans.
-   In _Dance in the Vampire Bund_, Mina Tepes is the sole child of the last vampire queen, and tries to hide from the other vampire leaders the fact that in her real form, she'd be able to bear their children.
-   In _Digimon Ghost Game_, Vamdemon fancies himself vampire royalty and believes that he should rule eternally over humans and Digimon while the finest specimens of both become vampire nobility under him. To that end, he and his underlings lure influencers to his penthouse and turn them into vampires in the hopes that they will in turn vampirize others.
-   In _Hellsing_ Integra once referred to Alucard as a "king of vampires, or at least a count". Though he doesn't have any authority over other vampires, excepting Seras after he turned her in the first chapter/episode, he is much more powerful than any other vampire in the series. And in the manga and OVA he is progenitor of all the vampires seen in the series, given that Millennium used Mina Harker's remains to create their mass-produced monsters.
-   _Higanjima_: Miyabi the main antagonist leads the vampires on an island and wants to spread his conquest into the world.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure_:
    -   The Pillar Men are a race of Mayincatec vampire-like beings once worshiped as Mayan gods who are capable of Voluntary Shapeshifting, and devouring flesh by touch, but are petrified when exposed to sunlight. Kars, the leader of the last surviving group, created the Stone Masks as a means to overcome sunlight and to create vanilla vampires from humans, to serve both as minion labor and as more nutritious meals than humans could be.
    -   Dio as well, least in the first part of the series, _Phantom Blood_, after he recovers from the fire at the Joestar mansion. He takes over a small countryside village and turns many people into his minions. Heck one of them was _Jack the Ripper_. While he is the main big bad in part 3, _Stardust Crusaders_, only two of his minions, Nukesaku and Vanilla Ice, are vampires. Everyone else is a human or animal who works for him.
-   _The Record of a Fallen Vampire_ has a queen (Adelheid) and a king (Akabara).
-   The Vampire King Duzell in _Vampire Game_. More so a century ago, when he commanded armies and warred with the good king Phelios; in the manga proper he’s been reincarnated as an orphaned kitten.

    Comic Books 

-   In _American Vampire_, vampires are divided into countless distinct bloodlines with their many differences and weaknesses. The Carpathian original (also known as Dracula, having actually served as inspiration for the fictional character) fits this trope very nicely having complete control of his progeny and being regarded as the most powerful vampire in existence.
-   _Athena Voltaire and the Vampire Queen_ is focused on one, as you'd expect from the title. This one is Elizabeth Báthory (who, in real life, was accused of indulging in the odd Blood Bath). She isn't actually served by any lesser vampires at the time of the story (having ghosts and werewolves instead), but is promising her followers to let them serve her as vampires if they're good.
-   _Crimson_: Victor Van Fleet is regarded by the Order of the Red Hood as the most powerful vampire lord in the world and has ambitions to become President. Above him however stands Lisseth, the creator of all their kind.
-   _Dark Ark_: Nex is the leader of the vampires onboard the titular vessel and by extension, the unofficial leader of all the other monsters too by virtue of vampires being the most dominant species among their kind.
-   The original "I, Vampire" tales from _House of Mystery_ had Mary, Queen of Blood for their Big Bad. She wasn't the progenitor of all vampires — indeed, her sire Andrew Bennett was the protagonist, The Atoner hunting down his evil offspring — but she did create and rule over the majority of evil vampires in the original miniseries and an _army_ of them in the 2011 reboot.
-   _A Love Like Blood_: Karkossa is the king of all vampires as well as their progenitor. Regular vampires look more or less like humans with fangs; Karkossa is more of a batlike monster after feeding for so long.
-   Marvel Comics' Dracula is the official "Lord of Vampires." He was named so and turned by the previous lord of vampires, Varnae, who happened to be the first vampire on the planet. Thanks to being turned by him he is one of the most powerful vampires on the planet and can mentally dominate other vampires. However, strong minded vampires can resist his control. He also is frequently challenged for his throne by rival vampires, his own son, his daughter Lilith, and the former lord of vampires himself.
-   In _Queen of Vampires_, the titular character, Arkhalla, is the reigning monarch of Ur. The first vampire ever created, she has turned a few of her most loyal supporters into vampires. They rule over the human population, which is treated as a source of food and slave labour.
-   _Raptors_: Don Miguel Y Certa, while not literally a king (instead being of Spanish high nobility), is the ruler of all vampires.
-   In _Requiem Vampire Knight_, Dracula himself is the king of all vampires in the nightmarish Hell / Bizarro World of Resurrection; due to the vagaries of the Timey-Wimey Ball that seems to govern the transition between death on Earth and rebirth on Resurrection, he is also the first vampire to appear there, despite Roman emperors Nero and Caligula, as well as Attila the Hun, who all predate him historically by over a millennium, also being vampires.

    Fan Works 

-   In _Child of the Storm_, the Vampire Courts of _The Dresden Files_ are shown, with the addition of a Grey Court of classic Dracula vampires. With the exception of the largely diminished Black Court, each is ruled by a King, Dracula being King of the Grey Court, Kukulcan the King of the Red Court (or at least, a vampire using that name) and Lord Raith is puppet King of the White Court.
-   _Dungeon Keeper Ami_: From "Temple Breached", it appears that if any of the vampires Zarekos sired, looks him in the eye, he can control them:
    
    An echo of this power within his own blood responded to the foreign touch, squashing even the possibility of rebellious thoughts. "M-Master?"
    
-   _My Roommate Is A Vampire_: Princess Luna is queen of the vampires, and the lycans as well.
-   In the _Shadowchasers Series_ continuity, Dracula has this role, but "Dracula" is not one being; rather, the name is a title held by whatever vampire rules the vampire race (Which is currently a Dying Race on Earth). The current Dracula is female and appears as a teenage girl who dresses in a modern, trendy outfit (she tells Fayte that she "figured it was time for a change") and this one seems a great deal more benign than most versions, likely interested in improving the PR of her people among other races (The exhibition at the end of the chapter states that Fayte's membership in the Shadowchasers was due to a request she and Penelope made with Jalal).
-   _Sixes and Sevens_: Kenneth Crichton turns Prince Rudolfo into the vampire emperor of Latveria during the events of _Headfirst Slide_. Crichton himself is a lesser example, since he's a member of the English nobility.

    Film 

-   _30 Days of Night_: Marlow appears to be this for the rest of the vampires. After he dies, the rest wander around aimlessly, indicating he may have had some mind control over them which has lifted now. Lilith is referred to as Vampire Queen in the sequel _Dark Days_.
-   Adam in the film version of _Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter_ is the vampiric king of all the New World vamps, ruling from his home base in the Confederacy.
-   _Blade Trilogy_:
    -   _Blade II_ has Overlord Eli Damaskinos. It's not clear how much power he wields, as the first film has stated that the House of Erebus is ruled by a council of purebloods.
    -   _Blade: Trinity_ is kicked off when a group of vampires find and awaken the original vampire Drake, who is several orders of magnitude more powerful than an ordinary vamp and doesn't have any of the weakenesses of ordinary vamps, but does have a number of additional powers like Voluntary Shapeshifting.
-   Baron Meinster in _The Brides of Dracula_. A unique example too as it's the only in the Hammer Dracula series where is the head vampire. This was due to Christopher Lee not wanting to play the role after _Horror of Dracula_.
-   The Big Bad from the horror movie _The Hunger_, who's also a Lesbian Vampire and Stalker with a Crush who actively tries to seduce the main heroine. And succeeds. Sort of.
-   _John Carpenter's Vampires_: Jan Valek, the movie's Big Bad, was a priest that became a master vampire after a botched exorcism and the very first of their kind.
-   In _The Lost Boys_, according to legend, if you kill a "head vampire", all the "half-vampires" (people who are infected but haven't fed yet) turned by him or by vampires under his command are restored to human form. This fails when the protagonists kill David, the leader of the vampire biker gang — because unassuming middle-aged video store owner Max is the head vampire.
-   In _Night Teeth_ Victor has Zoe and Blaire kill vampire overlords so that he can become this.
-   Akasha is the antagonist of _Queen of the Damned_, which is loosely based on the third novel of _The Vampire Chronicles_ detailed below.
-   King Vlasdilas in _Subspecies_ is a rare benevolent example as the vampire king of Prejner that exiled his evil son Radu for attacking and killing humans. Unfortunately, Radu returns to kill his father during the movie's opening to usurp the throne and becomes this trope himself.
-   _Tales of an Ancient Empire_: Xia, the vampire queen.
-   In _Underworld (2003)_, Marcus Corvinus is the first of the vampire elders.
    -   Marcus may be the first vampire, but the leader of vampires is unquestionably Victor, who usurped power from Marcus in the 13th century. It's made pretty clear that the Death Dealers (the vampire army) are loyal primarily to Victor.
    -   Marcus is the son of a warlord, while Victor was a warlord before being turned. It's implied that Amelia is also of noble blood.
-   In _Van Helsing_, all the vampires and werewolves answer to Dracula, who presumably was the first vampire.

    Literature 

-   In _Anita Blake_, Marmee Noir, Mother Of All Darkness, leader of all vampires, and head of the Vampire Council, the first (or one of the first) vampires in existence.
-   _Anno Dracula_:
    -   Dracula himself is the lord and ruler of all the world's vampires (at least in his own opinion, and that of his followers. There are more powerful Elders who disagree, but mostly don't care enough to correct him on the subject). They refer to him as "The King of Cats". In the first book of the series he even marries Queen Victoria and though he's officially described as the 'Prince Consort', it's obvious that he wields the power, at least until the end of the book.
    -   In the Christina Light subseries, Christina manages to take this role through sheer force of personality, creating her own vampire kingdom in Japan, even though she's far from being an Elder.(She doesn't consider herself a "monarch", though; she _had_ a royal title but rejected it.)
-   _Betsy the Vampire Queen_ has the titular character, along with her king, Eric.
-   In _Chicagoland Vampires_, every house is headed by a Master Vampire who rules over it as a king. Indeed, every vampire in them has to address them as "my liege." They are all under the Greewich Presidium, which is headed by a vampire council.
-   Stryker or Strykerius from _The Dark Hunters_ is the king of the Soul Eating vampire-like Daimons and seeks to have Daimons rule the world.
-   _Discworld_:
    -   _Carpe Jugulum_ had one—mentioned in passing—as a Queen of Lancre. And several entries under 'years of reign'. The fact that the reign list wasn't longer suggests _somebody_ got tired of the whole business...
    -   And of course there is Lady Margolotta, de facto ruler of Überwald (which doesn't have an _official_ ruler due to being "rather more what you get _before_ you get countries") who, it is hinted, has been around for at least a millenium. Margolotta has become very clever at ruling and these days tends to lightly steer her country, possibly _making suggestions_ in the right ears rather than outright commands. She was also a tutelary influence on Havelock Vetinari, although these days it is unclear as to which of them is now teaching the other.
-   The Ur-Example is Bram Stoker's _Dracula_. Count Dracula is referred to as "King Vampire", "to whom so many more were due." In context it seems to simply refer to his having created many other vampires. However the real person Dracula is most often associated with is Vlad the Impaler, an actual 1400s ruler.
-   _The Dresden Files_ has four distinct vampire species, otherwise known as "Courts":
    -   The Red Court has the Red King who assumed the name of Kukulkan, which is the name of a Mayan deity whose identity he assumed to better control the local populations. This worked better in pre-Spanish Mesoamerica, but he still holds enormous covert power by having insinuated his Court in with human governments and businesses across Central and South America, and the Court's servants and indigenous peoples still maintain his cult. (Instances of mental instability and recreational drug-like reactions to blood are common in the Red Court, and he was no exception; the Red King was becoming increasingly unstable as he descended deeper into addiction with the war. His vampire daughter Arianna was planning on having him killed and replacing whichever member of his inner circle stepped into his place. He is killed along with the rest of the Court in _Changes_). These are blood drinkers whose true form is a bat-monster but can appear as human.
    -   The White Court consists of three Houses, each of whom has their own Lord. Lord Raith, of House Raith, is and has apparently always been, the White King. Lord Raith's eldest daughter, Lara Raith, is the current and _de facto_ White Queen. Having fed up with him, she Mind Raped him after he let slip that his power has been diminshing. We don't know how much of him she left but the plot has so far been treating him as effectively out of the picture. Lara is under pressure to keep him alive and maintaining appearances of "all is well" for political reasons, but her increased leadership and aggressive actions may make it an Open Secret that she's the real power in the White Court now. Ironically, she became a the source of some positive change in the setting, even if she is still a creature that preys on humans; Lara is just as ruthless, but much more humane and practical than her tyrannical father. She remains a scary and tenuous, but cordial and consistent ally of Dresden. They are supermodel emotion eaters with each House having a different taste.
    -   The Black Court (the "Draculas") are currently decimated to the point where only a few powerful individuals exist. Interestingly, the Black King would be the entity that founded the Court, which would make it _Dracula_ (who's hinted to still be "alive" somewhere and so is likely still its King). However, some time ago Word of God has it that Drac's _father_, Dracul, is reputedly FAR more powerful than his son, and is even something...else stuck in human form. When Dracul shows up in _Battle Ground_, he has all the powers that Brahm Stoker gave Dracula, but more exaggerated versions, and even some abilities that his son didn't have. The whole situation isn't clear, but it appears that Dracul is either an incredibly powerful Black Court vampire, or that the Black Court has been hand-crafted to be made in imitation of him, either way, he's a strong contender to be the actual Black King.
    -   A fourth Court, the Jade Court, is mentioned as based somewhere in Southeast Asia. Little is known about them as they are isolationists.
-   All the vampires in _The Icemark Chronicles_ are ruled over by two ancient vampires known only as their vampiric majesties.
-   Rupert Giles in the _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ novel "The Lost Slayer". A Face–Heel Turn from his character in the onscreen series.
-   Vampires in _Mercy Thompson_ usually live together in a "Seethe" with an acting queen or king that leads them. These rulers usually have the ability to control the vampires which live in their Seethe should they wish it. Though the actual ruler of the vampire world as a whole is The Master of Milan otherwise known as Iacapo/Jacob Bonarata.
-   Amelie from _Morganville Vampires_ was a princess in life before being turned into a vampire and has in the present, become the ruler of the town of Morganville's vampire population which also happens to contain most if not all the world's remaining vampires.
-   _Nightfall (Series)_: Prince Vladimir. Vampires have conquered humanity, so he is ruling the world as well.
-   _Old Scores_: According to Simon and Salem, the elective post of King of All Vampires was designed to arbitrate disputes among vampires and uphold the Masquerade. Shafax, however, is taking his role as king much further than any vampire ever intended.
-   The _President's Vampire_ series by Christopher Farnsworth implies that Nathaniel Cade was turned by a 'King Vampire'; since vampires tend to be solitary apex predators and don't have a heirarchy per se, the King Vampires are implied to be the oldest, largest and most aggressive of their kind.
-   In _The Saga of Darren Shan_ and the prequel, _The Saga of Larten Crepsley_, the Vampires are ruled by a group of Princes, who are promoted from the ranks of Vampire Generals. Any vampire can train to become a General, but a Prince has to nominate a General to become a Prince.
-   _The Shadowhunter Chronicles_: Vampires don't have a single monarch but rather a series of covens, each headed by a leader.
    -   The New York vampire clan is headed by Raphael Santiago, but it is revealed that Raphael usurped the position from Camille Belcourt, who was forced into hiding after Raphael reported to the Clave that she had been hunting humans, in defiance of the Accords. Camille later returns and attempts to reclaim her position by allying with Lilith. However, she is assassinated by young vampire Maureen Brown, while Raphael is captured by Sebastian Morgenstern and dies sacrificing himself to save Magnus Bane. Maureen then reigns as leader until she is killed in turn by Maia Roberts, who makes a deal with Maureen's second-in-command Lily Chen to depose her. Lily assumes the position as leader afterwards.
    -   The London vampire clan was headed by Alexei de Quincey in the late 1800s, but he was killed off by the Shadowhunters for staging parties where vampires feasted on humans. The Shadowhunters were tipped off by Camille Belcourt, who sought revenge because Alexei murdered her werewolf lover.
-   _That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime_:
    -   There is a vampire Demon Lord known as the "Bloody Lord" Roy Valentine, believed by many to be this. His twin brother Louis Valentine serves as the Puppet King of the Holy Empire of Ruberios.
    -   The _actual_ monarch is True Demon Lord and "Queen of Nightmares" Luminous Valentine, Roy and Louis' superior as well as Ruberios' real master and the god of the Western Saints Church. She rules the vampire race by virtue of being the oldest-living and strongest vampire, having established the Empire and her religion in order to cultivate a happy, healthy human population over which the vampire race can safely feed on from the shadows. Although technically, she is in fact the last "High Blood", the original progenitor race that created vampires (and humanity) which bear weakened versions of her full potential.
-   Prince Vulkan of the Robert R. McCammon novel, _They Thirst_, where a horde of vampires overtly take over Los Angeles. He is referred to as The Master or the King.
-   In _Trinity Blood_, Empress Augusta Vradica the First is the leader of the Methuselah vampires of "The New Human Empire". She usually hides what she really looks like, sometimes using an underling to pose as her. In reality, she is Seth Nightroad, a Crusnik Vampire that can feed on Methuselah vampires, and is Really 700 Years Old despite looking like a young girl.
-   In _The Twilight Saga_, there is the Volturi, a coven which considers itself the government of all vampires. It is headed by Aro, Marcus and Caius, with Aro acting as the leader.
-   Akasha, the Queen of the Damned from _The Vampire Chronicles_: a co-ruler of ancient Egypt with her husband Enkil, she became the first vampire when a powerful spirit merges with her blood. This links her to every vampire in the world, who will suffer and die as she does; though this is avoided by another vampire eating her heart and brain to become its new host.
-   Count Szandor is a Vampire Monarch in _The Vampire Countess_ by Paul Féval, being the Greater-Scope Villain behind the title character.
-   _Vampire Hunter D_:
    -   Count Magnus Lee. In the anime, we meet his youngest daughter Lamika, who, even though she deeply resents his actions, can do no more than argue with him or try to get Doris away -she can't oppose him directly herself.
    -   Although he's never seen, there's D's father, referred to in the original light novels as "The Revered Ancestor". In the anime, Count Magnus refers to him as the noblest of all, and other comments indicate Dracula is the first vampire and ancestor on that world.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Being Human (UK)_ has Mr Snow, the head of the Old Ones. He's never actually _called_ a king, but he acts like one and all the vampires treats him as such. Similarily, the US version has Mother, a vampire implied to be far older than the thousand-year-old council of the Dutch, who rules over them all. While not explicity referenced as the first vampire or queen, her daughter Suren is called a royal on multiple occasions.
-   The Master in _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_, who was the Big Bad of Season 1 and vampiric ancestor of major characters Darla, Angel, Drusilla and Spike. Kakistos from one episode of Season 3 is a minor example. Sunday, a one off character from Season 4, is shown likewise to be the leader in her small band of vampires. And Dracula, while not following the rules of the series, kinda has this as well when we meet him. In the canonical comic continuation, Dracula briefly uses a Reality Warper book to make himself the official king of all vampires, but is subject to Be Careful What You Wish For because vampires start coming out of the woodwork attempting a Klingon Promotion.
-   The _Charmed_ episode "Bite Me" has the girls fight the Vampire Queen, an enemy of the Source. Killing her destroys every vampire descended from her and also rehumanizes Paige, who was temporarily turned into a vampire but hadn't fed on human blood yet.
-   In the _Doctor Who_ story "State of Decay", the head vampire is an Eldritch Abomination. Once the Doctor stakes it with a rocket ship, the other (human) vampires crumble to dust.
-   _From Dusk Till Dawn_'s Santanico Pandemonium is actually a subversion. She rules over the vampiric hordes of the Titty Twister but is herself subordinate (read: slave) to the leaders of The Cartel/Cult of the Culebras, who are themselves subordinate to the Nine Lords of Night, the heads of vampire hierarchy who fit this trope much better. Doubly subverted in Season 3, when the Lords are killed off, leaving Santanico as the last remaining leader to the vampires.
-   _Kamen Rider Kiva_ features the Bat Fangire. Otherwise known as King, he is the lord of all Fangires and a genocidal maniac and tyrant. King led a genocidal purge of the Franken and Merman races which reduced both to only one surviving individual from each because of his Fantastic Racism and his belief in the superiority of Fangires. After his death in 1986 by his own son, the position of Fangire ruler is eventually won by Wataru Kurenai/Kamen Rider Kiva who helps establish peace compared to his evil predecessor. In fact, "Kiva" is short for "KIng of VAmpires", befitting as it is meant to be the Fangire King's combat regalia.
-   The as-yet-unseen Master from _Penny Dreadful_ probably qualifies, if the vassal-like behavior of the lesser vampires and The Renfield from Season One is any example. In season 3, the Master Vampire is revealed to be Dracula, who is intent upon seducing Vanessa to rule the apocalypse by his side. She has other plans.
-   _Power Rangers Mystic Force_ has Necrolai. It comes with great perks: she and those she personally turns into vampires are immune to the usual vampire weaknesses. She herself cannot die by any means (even the one thing that could _supposedly_ destroy a vampire queen for good was found and used fairly early on. She went 'kaboom' with a spectacular lights show at the end of an epic battle... only to re-form from dust that same night.)
-   _Supernatural_ reveals the Alpha Vampire in season 6. He is the progenitor of all the subsequent vampires, while he himself was sired by the mother of all the monster races. It's implied he might be tens of thousands of years old, he has a psychic connection to all his "children", and orders them to turn more people to prepare for a war against Crowley's demons.
-   In _True Blood_ vampires are ruled by a system of Monarchs, who in turn answer to an NGO, which acts as the Mouth of Sauron to an Omniscient Council of Vagueness. Vampire culture also recognizes a mythological progenitor queen in the form of Lilith. So far the monarchs we've seen are..
    -   Sophie-Anne Leclerq of Louisiana. Made Bill her dragon while Bill was The Mole for the pro-mainstreaming movement, so as soon as it became convenient the Authority had her staked and replaced with Bill.
    -   Russell Edgington of Mississippi. Though he may have lost the position when he became a rogue human murderer, and now that he's met the true death it's unclear if he's been replaced.
    -   Bill Compton of Louisiana, replacing Sophie-Anne after the Authority killed her. He's more of a puppet to the Authority then she ever was, though.
-   _The Vampire Diaries_:
    -   Klaus is the at the top of the vampire hierarchy. He is an Original, meaning that many vampires in existence are created from his bloodline.
    -   Klaus' siblings (of which Rebekah and Elijah are still living) count as a kind of pseudo vampire royalty. Being the very first vampires, they are widely recognized as the oldest, strongest, and most powerful vampires. And all other vampires in existence are descended from them.
-   _Van Helsing (2016)_:
    -   Vampires tend to group together in packs led by particularly strong ones, who in turn tend to be subservient to older and more powerful vampires known as Ancients who hold sway over larger swaths of territory. For example, Dmitri (the Big Bad of the first two seasons) is the Ancient who rules over Seattle and much of the surrounding countryside, with Julius being a particularly notable pack leader under his command.
    -   Elders don't directly rule over their kin, but having been granted exceptional power taken directly from the Dark One gives them a lot of authority when they feel like applying it.
    -   The aforementioned Dark One, Dracula, is the undisputed Queen of all vampires, due to a combination of seniority and sheer power.

    Tabletop Games 

-   Dracula is the leader of the Vampire Nation in _Halt Evil Doer!!_ He's also the first vampire, even though there were vampires long before he died; it's a bit timey wimey.
-   The Wan Kuei of _Kindred of the East_ trace the foundation of their society to Xue, the Grand Arhat, the first of their kind to reach full enlightenment, who's no longer around by the present day. The Wan Kuei counterpart to a prince is an "ancestor", a sufficiently enlightened vampire who oversees a city or region.
-   _Magic: The Gathering_:
    -   On the plane of Innistrad, Sorin Markov's grandfather Edgar Markov is the head of House Markov and the first vampire. Sorin's relationship with his grandfather is somewhat strained since Sorin never forgave Edgar for turning him into the second vampire on Innistrad, partly because the process was painful enough to awaken Sorin's planeswalker spark (the spark can only be awakened by extreme trauma). Edgar and the other vampires resent Sorin for creating Avacyn, the guardian angel of Innistrad's human population. Sorin left Innistrad to explore the multiverse. When he returned, he was disgusted to see that the safeguards and institutions he had left behind to keep Innistrad safe had fallen apart. Sorin grimly resumed his duties as the Lord of Innistrad.
    -   The original example of this trope from _Magic_ is Baron Sengir, the progenitor of the ever-popular Sengir Vampires. The Baron despotically rules a fiefdom of oppressed humans at the head of a depraved family of vampires, Evil Sorcerers, and human turncoats.
    -   In Ixalan, vampirism is a religious ritual, and vampires follow both the church and crown. Saint Elenda was the first vampire, but she has since disappeared, and now most follow orders from Queen Miralda. Turns out that Saint Elenda is furious at what the vampires have become, and is now heading back to give the church and crown a piece of her mind.
-   Master Vampires are the rulers of vampires in _Rifts_. They serve (and are created directly by) the ultimate source of the infestation, the Vampire Intelligence.
-   _Vampire: The Masquerade_:
    -   Averted by Caine, the Monster Progenitor of the species and the most powerful vampire, who isn't interested in ruling the kindred. The Antediluvians, Caine's grandchildren thirteen ancient vampires who survived the Deluge and spawned the thirteen vampiric clans, could be considered the current rulers of vampire society. Of the ones who aren't either dead, sleeping or busy with other affairs, their rule is indirect and done via a great distance.
    -   Vampire society in the two major sects (the Camarilla and the Sabbat) is very stratified by generation and rank. The Camarilla has Princes, elder vampires who each claim domain over a major city and is practically its king (the Camarilla Inner Circle is a council of Princes and can overrule a Prince, but they are otherwise autonomous). The Sabbat, meanwhile, have a straight-up pyramid, with the Regent of Mexico City on top ruling the entire sect.
    -   Averted by the Anarchs, the largest of the minor sects. As can be indicated by their name, they tend to avoid hierarchies or kings. Anarchs have barons, which are vampires who claim Domain over a territory and may have other vampires working with or for them, but those relationships are based entirely on personal power or respect.
-   The New World of Darkness version, _Vampire: The Requiem_, has done away with the concept of active progenitor (a key point of the setting is that nobody really knows how vampires came about), but maintained the feudal hierarchy of a prince ruling a city's vampiric population.
-   _Warhammer Fantasy_:
    -   Vampires are all ultimately descended from one of seven original vampires created by Queen Neferata of Lahmia, in her partially successful attempt to recreate the Great Necromancer Nagash's Elixir of Immortality. Neferata was herself the first of the seven, and for a while ruled openly over all vampires, when they were still resident in the city of Lahmia in ancient days. When Lahmia fell to Neferata's enemies the vampires fled across the world, and though she still exists and rules over her own scattered bloodline as a queen, no other vampires owe her fealty anymore.
    -   On a smaller scale, the von Carstein bloodline in Sylvania are organised along feudal lines, with the most powerful ruling the others as Count (albeit only nominally in many cases). Initially this was Vlad von Carstein, but upon his eventual death Konrad von Carstein succeeded in becoming top vampire, then he died and was succeeded by Mannfred von Carstein who also died but was later resurrected with a host of lesser vampires (and the occasional "human" necromancer) ruling between his two reigns.
-   Vampire Lord and Vampire Genesis in the _Yu-Gi-Oh!_ card game.

    Video Games 

-   Artix Entertainment's _AdventureQuest_ series of games have Safiria as the Vampire Queen of Darkovia.
-   _Arknights_: The leader of the Vampire Sarkaz is known as the Sanguinarch, and the current one is a bloodthirsty 0% Approval Rating sadist that mass murders people just to feed his own thirst for blood.
-   _Bloodborne_: Queen Annalise of the Vilebloods is both aristocratic nobility and one of the many blood-worshipping undead in the city. She's also the ruler of an empty castle, since the church executioners Took a Level in Badass (discovered how to drain blood themselves, invented trick weapons for changing fighting styles from man to beast on the fly, and guns. Lots of guns.) and killed every other vampiric Vileblood. You can join her covenant and trade blood dregs for prestige, though that also makes you hostile to executioner players. If you follow Alfred's quest line, he'll kill her off himself. She can be resurrected easily.
-   _BloodRayne_ had Kagan, the main protagonist's vampire father who also leads a cult devoted in furthering his cause. Justified by the fact the vampires are literally his children.
-   Dracula from the _Castlevania_ series, lord of all vampires and mortal enemy of the Belmont clan.
-   Lazarus Malkoth in _Dark Watch_, a vampire lord who unleashes a undead apocalypse upon the Old West upon being released and turns the main protagonist, Jericho Cross, into a vampire. Its Jericho's goal to find and kill Lazarus so he can reclaim his soul and become human again. In the game's evil ending, Jericho can become this trope when he chooses to absorb Lazarus' power for himself rather than getting cured.
-   _The Elder Scrolls_:
    -   _Morrowind_ has three vampire "clans" and every vampire on Vvardenfell is of their blood. Though none claim an aristocratic title, these clans are ruled by their leaders - Dhaunayne Aundae, Raxle Berne, and Volrina Quarra. The one whose clan you join becomes your primary questgiver in the vampire questline, though they generally view you with disdain.
    -   In _Skyrim_'s _Dawnguard_ DLC, a superpowered race of vampires is pitted against an organization of vampire hunters, the titualar Dawnguard. The Vampire faction is led by a Lord Harkon, who fits the bill quite nicely. If you join the vampire side, you'll end up displacing Harkon and becoming this trope yourself.
-   _King's Quest II: Romancing the Stones_ has a Zig-Zagged case with Count Caldur of Kolyma. In life, he was the rightful ruler of the land. After he had been turned into one by his political rivals (an order of ultra-conservative monks who cut a deal with evil spirits in the forest and became werewolves), he retreated from his duties out of shame and an attempt to protect his surviving family (a wife and granddaughter). With Graham's help, he turns his wife and granddaughter into vampires (keeping them safe from his enemies), the werewolf priests are trapped in the swamp, and he is able to resume his position as ruler and custodian of the realm.
-   _League of Legends_ has Vladimir the Crimson Reaper, who isn't strictly a vampire (being an immortal human who keeps himself alive using Blood Magic is close enough), but evokes this alongside his remarkably classy taste. In present-day Noxus (an empire that he secretly co-founded along with the Black Rose), he has a Cult of Personality surrounding him known as The Crimson Circle, largely consisting of similarly aspiring aristocrats seeking to learn and elevate themselves from Vladimir's blood magic and deft political hand.
-   In _Legacy of Kain_, Kain is the oldest existing vampire, the progenitor of all other existing vampires, the last surviving Guardian of the Pillars of Nosgoth, and the ruler of the known world. He was preceded by Vorador who, while not actually a king, was certainly extremely wealthy and ruled "a private kingdom" in the Termogent Forest.
-   The Final Boss of _Monster Hunter (PC)_ is an all-powerful Vampire Lord, called The Count, who needs to be staked 6 times before he's defeated. He's also the progenitor and leader of the armies of monsters the player spend the past 200 or so levels battling.
-   In _RuneScape_, the baleful land of Morytania is ruled by one Lord Lowerniel Vergidiyad Drakan. After his defeat, his sister Vanescula takes the throne.
-   _SaGa Frontier_. Orlouge is the lord of the Mystics, ruling over the kingdom of Facinaturu. In the Full Mystic ending, he's overthrown by Asellus who snapped after receiving nothing but Discrimination due to her position as the only Half-Mystic in the setting. She becomes the new lord... And a worse tyrant than Orlouge ever was.
-   In _The Secret World_, you adventure to a section of Romania (formerly Transylvania) that is under siege by an army of vampires led by Vampire Queen Mara.
-   In _The Sims 2_, the only way to get a vampire for the first time is to go to downtown and hope you run into a Grand Vampire.
-   Remilia Scarlet from _Touhou Project_ clearly **wants** to give off this vibe. But Remilia is also as close to an Evil Eye-type chuunibyou as a legitimate and powerful vampire can be, so any affirmations she makes in the matter should be taken with a grain of salt. As it stands, Remilia's authority doesn't seem to extend much past the fairies, Ninja Maid and gatekeeper of her Scarlet Devil Mansion, and the only other vampire seen in the setting so far is her own sister, leaving her without very much to rule over.
-   Lord Redgrave in _Vampyr (2018)_ is the chairman of the Ascalon Club and therefore, the effective ruler of British vampire society. Downplayed, since he doesn't derive his authority from his age and power by claiming descendance to The Older Immortal, but from political influence, wealth and ultimately deception as he is secretly a lesser vampire who fooled everyone else. On the other hand, The Red Queen plays it straight due to having created their kind and being far older and powerful, and though not an actual ruler like Redgrave, she is revered as a goddess instead.

    Visual Novels 

-   In the extended Nasuverse, Brunestud of the Crimson Moon. He served as the template for the natural-born True Ancestor vampires and held sway over both them and the formerly-human Dead Apostles. After his death at the hands of Zelretch, the closest things he has to a successor are the "King of the Dead Apostles" Trhvmn Ortenrosse, the "unstable" Altrouge Brunestud, and the last True Ancestor Arcueid Brunestud, the latter two inheriting his name due to having the potential to one day host his reincarnation. Technically, there is a list of 27 "Dead Apostle Ancestors" who have a claim on ruling over the vampires, but in practice most of them follow either Ortenrosse or Altrouge (while Arcueid busies herself trying to kill all of them).

    Webcomics 

-   _Charby the Vampirate_ has King Rodericke Robinson as king of the born vampires.
-   _El Goonish Shive_ plays with this. In the Magical Gatherings card game, the vampire lord is O.P. Aludrakrala... a vampire pro wrestler.
-   _Sluggy Freelance_ has Queen Lysinda, leader of the Lysinda circle of vampires; and later Philinnon, leader of the Vrykolakas vampires. Sam Sein becomes the last surviving member of the Lysinda circle and renames it the Sam Cirkail Mamajama, but can't convince anyone to join him. Later, it's revealed that the first vampire, Drakku, was the God-Emperor of vampires. After the Strakoi vampires almost destroy the Vrykolakas, the few non-Strakoi vampire survivors crown Sam as the new high king of vampires and the successor of Drakku. The idea comes from Urja, who thinks he's the only one fit to rule because of how he has managed to prevail with all the other vampires wanting him dead before. It only takes one comic for her to grow sick of him and stake him (leaving him "alive" but unconscious) and toss him in the broom cupboard to be king there.
-   _Total Undead Drama_: Storm though an unintentional example since he really only want to feed on one person (Sadie) and things escalated due to her loving that she was turned by a vampire and devoted to him. Ultimately Storm just rolled with it.
-   _True Villains_ has Malanor, King of the Vampires and part-time Large Ham. He is also the First Vampire, acknowledged strongest sorcerer in the world, and a threat to all life on the continent.
-   _Zoophobia_ refers to Venganza as a "queen".

    Web Original 

-   In _Metamor Keep_ and _Metamor City_ the daedra lord Lilith created both vampires and werewolves. By the time of _Metamor City_ she's dead but her former high priestess Talia has succeeded her as queen of the vampires.
-   In _Necromancer_ and _Death Song_, Lord Rostov is the leader of the vampires.
-   The short story _Vampire Castes_ describes this kind of government complete with a Fantastic Caste System of different kinds of humans under the vampires.

     Western Animation 

-   _Adventure Time_ has Marceline the Vampire Queen. The relevance of her status as a monarch is debatable: Other vampires are unseen, and eventually the _Stakes_ miniseries shows Marceline is Last of Her Kind, and got the title by process of elimination, having all but exterminated vampires before being turned herself. She was also nobility of a sort even before becoming a vampire, because her Demonic father is the undisputed ruler of an entire Fire and Brimstone Hell and she is his (reluctant) heir. Marceline was shown participating in Princess Day in the episode of the same name, but whether she's there as Queen of the Vampires, Princess of the Nightosphere, or just crashing the event is never mentioned.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ has Queen Chrysalis, the queen of the Changelings, a species that could be compared to vampires (as well as succubi). The throne has since been usurped by Thorax, a friendly Changeling that Spike met during Season 6.
-   _The Simpsons_: In a Treehouse of Horror episode based on _Bram Stoker's Dracula_, in order to de-vampirize Bart they have to kill the head vampire. So Homer kills Mr. Burns, thinking he's the head. Turns out he's not — Marge is... who happens to be his wife.
    
    _I do have a life outside this house, you know._
    
-   _Spider-Man: The Animated Series_ had a Queen of the Vampires, Miriam, as Blade's main antagonist, voiced by none other than Nichelle Nichols. Bonus points for making her his mother.

___