**Priestess:** Children?  
**Goblin Slayer:** They multiply quickly. If this nest had been left much longer, there might have been a horde of fifty waiting for us down here. You were lucky.  
**Priestess:** Are you going to kill them?  
**Goblin Slayer:** Of course I am. These animals hold on to grudges for life. The survivors will learn from the mistakes of the dead, and adapt. There isn't a single reason to show them mercy.  
**Priestess:** But what if there was a good goblin? They might exist!  
**Goblin Slayer:** Maybe. If you looked hard, you might be able to find _one_. But in the end...the only good goblins are the ones who never show their faces to the light of day.

On one end, we have the Hunter of Monsters, the man who stalks the night, armed to the teeth, ready to mow down vampires, zombies, werewolves, or vampiric zombie werewolves. And on the other end, we have the Friendly Neighborhood Vampires. The guys and girls who keep a nocturnal schedule, stop over at the blood bank for a quick snack, and do their best to help the community.

There are going to be some _interesting_ philosophical questions when these two meet. (Or not.)

Van Helsing Hate Crimes are what happens when a medium that includes monsters and/or monster hunters calls attention to the fact that, in that 'verse at least, not all monsters are, well...monsters. Some of them are perfectly decent folks just trying to fit in who happen to get lumped in with the one or two bad apples, like Dracula. Of course, this will result in the monster hunters either learning An Aesop or turning out to be those who fight monsters in the truest Nietzschean sense, sometimes becoming even worse than the actual monsters. If there are both good and bad monsters within this universe, expect these hunters to be _far_ more competent at attacking the good ones.

Compare Fantastic Racism, which is similar to this but on a more wide-spread, societal scale, and may also be targeted at creatures that are not obviously monstrous (such as elves, talking animals or whatever). Also compare Zombie Advocate, who argues in favor of the monster's humanity, and Inhumanable Alien Rights, when the hunter is from a government agency of some kind. See also Stages of Monster Grief, for monsters who may or may not like their condition. See also Burn the Witch!.

Not to be confused with what happens when Van Helsing turns Lawful Neutral or Lawful Evil.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Bleach_ has Ichigo and co. acting like this when they meet Nel Tu and the others. Ichigo comes very close to killing the Hollows, which is understandable, due to the Hollows chasing Nel as a game of tag. Once the misunderstanding is cleared up, they join forces, despite the previously-held belief that Hollows were Always Chaotic Evil. Apparently, the Hollows are just mostly chaotic evil.
    -   Subverted when it turns out that the "Hollows" are actually Arrancar (basically ascended Hollows) and Nel's underlings. Hollows are Always Chaotic Evil, but Arrancar have free will and individual personalities.
-   _Date A Live_: This is brought up with Origami, who wants to kill all spirits since it was a spirit that killed her parents. Shido tries to reason with her to get her to see that not all spirits are bad and most are unaware of the damage they cause. Sealing their powers mitigates the damage and for a while, Origami tolerates them, but her fixation on finding her parents' murderer leads her to ally herself with Isaac Westcott, who provides her with new weaponry to use against the spirits, even though they're no longer considered a threat after Shido seals them.
-   In _The Death Mage Who Doesn't Want a Fourth Time_, while there is a peaceful faction within The Church that respects some non-humans, several races who descend from monsters (the goddess of life wasn't picky on her partners while populating the world) are targets of extermination even though many of them are sentient and can have peaceful relations with humans. Our protagonist happens to be born into one of those races, which understandably leaves him with a very negative opinion of the church and their god.
-   The backdrop of _The Demon Girl Next Door_ involves the war between the Light Clan, and the demons, also known as the Dark Clan. The problem is... whether a lifeform is a "demon" depends on the amount of demonic blood in their ancestry and whether those demonic power manifest or not, without much regard for whether that character is _actually_ good or evil. As a result, members of the Light Clan often just kill whoever demon is in sight to fulfill their Bargain with Heaven, despite none of the several demons shown in the series so far can be said as evil in any sense.
-   _Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba_ brings this into question when the Hashira hold a trial to determine whether Nezuko (and potentially other demons who don't harm humans) should be allowed to live.
-   Once it's clear that demons are infiltrating human society in _Devilman_, humans start military actions against them. The problem is that they don't know about, and later don't believe in, Devilmen — humans who bonded with demons and retained their good nature — killing them alongside real demons. They're also willing to kill anyone even suspected of being a demon (defined as "anyone who is unsatisfied with society") and those accused of helping them. The big irony is that the ringleader and instigator of the hunt, Ryo Asuka, is himself the king of all demons, Satan, who was trying to tear down human society so demons may rule again.
-   Discussed, defied and justified in _Goblin Slayer_. Right at the end of the first arc, Priestess expressed her disturbance at Goblin Slayer's willingness to kill goblin children, citing this trope. Goblin Slayer would have none of it, even proclaiming that 'the only good goblins are the ones who never leave their holes', and judging from how every single goblin depicted so far are Always Chaotic Evil bastards who would Rape, Pillage, and Burn, he would not (and _should_ not) take that chance.
-   In _Hellsing_, the Catholic-founded Iscariot Organisation sees vampires as an abomination and affront to God that needs to be wiped out, even the vampires that are hunting other vampires for the sake of humanity. It loses its edge, however, when you consider that, until Seras came along, there was only one such vampire, a sociopathic slaughter machine by the name of Alucard who is only held back by a very mortal woman.
-   _Hell Teacher Nube_:
    -   The Paper Master exorcist Yang Kailen who vowed to exterminate all supernatural creatures because of his dead little sister, eventually arrives at Domori looking for the ultimate youkai-killing weapon: Nube's Oni left hand. Along the way, he massacres and violently slaughters innocent, benevolent, cheerful, and divine creatures that Nube was friends with.
    -   Izuna, the amateur exorcist, also had a bit of this going when she first met the Sorcerer Kitsune Tamamo and the Snow Maiden Yukime. But these two are _far_ beyond her level and handily humiliated her before Nube set her straight. Unlike Yang Kailen, though, Izuna is a lot more open-minded (she keeps and breeds her own Tube Foxes) and gets over herself.
    -   Nube's father is also guilty of this, to the point of attacking Yukime _on sight_ merely because she's a youkai and he's an exorcist.
-   _Inuyasha_ plays on this occasionally; all humans fear youkai and hanyo, but not all youkai and hanyo want to hurt humans. This trope is even inverted with a villain who is convinced that all humans want to hurt demons.
    -   One example is the "Spider-Head" arc, where the girl Nazuna exhibits considerable prejudice towards Inuyasha and Shippo, despite Inuyasha having saved her from a fall, though she realizes and accepts that not all youkai are bad by the end.
    -   Then there's Jinenji, a Gentle Giant hanyo who is constantly bullied for being a hanyo. When people in his village are discovered eaten, he is immediately the prime suspect to their eyes, and the true culprit, a nest of insect demons, is only revealed to the villagers _after_ said villagers form an angry mob and burn Jinenji's house to the ground. Having realized their error by the end, the villagers help Jinenji and his mother rebuild their hut as an apology.
    -   In another episode, they meet a morally gray demon hunter who condemns Rin and the humans in Inuyasha's group for even associating with demons/youkai and half-demons/hanyou, going so far as to brand Kagome, Sango, and Miroku hypocrites for doing so. Unlike Nazuna and the people in Jinenji's village, he doesn't learn any lesson by the end.
    -   Even the young hanyou-girl Shiori was badly treated and marginalized by the other villagers. Even the children threw them to the ground and beat them up.
    -   In the sequel series _Yashahime: Princess Half-Demon_, the half-demon Futa tells that her parents were murdered by humans.
-   _Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?_: When Bell and the Hestia Familia discover the Xenos, monsters that can talk and reason, they are rocked by this discovery, but decide to help them. When the city finds out, they issue a search and destroy order, and Ais Wallenstein, Bell's love interest, attacks the innocent Xenos Wiene while Bell tries to defend her. Ais says all monsters must be exterminated and only relents when Wiene maims herself to prove she is not a threat. Ais is rocked by this sight, and it takes her a while to accept that the world is not black and white and that some humans are evil just like some monsters are good.
-   In contrast with _Hellsing_, in _Karin_, vampires usually only take enough blood to make the person feel anemic and drained of emotion (which can actually be a _good_ thing, if a person has a lot of negative emotions). So it's not surprising that Vampire Hunters are portrayed as Knight Templars.
-   The Demon Slayers in _Omamori Himari_ seemingly want to eradicate all Ayakashi, with minor exceptions (currently only one) like the Amakawa family, who have some Ayakashi as servants.
-   Discussed in an episode of _Panty & Stocking with Garterbelt_. Panty and Stocking's "job" is to kill Ghosts, creatures mostly borne out of the spite of dead and living humans, which are almost always sadistic and destructive. _Almost_, we find, since one particular Ghost happens to be not only harmless but a beloved member of the human community. When he is found dead, the public demands that the culprit be prosecuted, and the prime suspects are Panty and Stocking. Although they did not do it, nobody believes them, since even they openly admit that they usually attack Ghosts on sight (although the Ghosts they kill are always causing some sort of trouble). In the end, this is subverted: the actual culprit was the Ghost's wife, and the whole "hate crime" story was fed and spun out of control by the Daemon sisters, who sought to frame the heroines and get them the death penalty.
-   _Rosario + Vampire_:
    -   Monsters have isolated their population centers and disguise themselves as human so that they can survive alongside them. In particular, Witches have so suffered from persecution and habitat loss, some other monsters essentially consider them an endangered species.
    -   Witches suffer from this in _both_ directions, because many monsters are prejudiced against them for being "almost human".
-   _Senran Kagura: Shinovi Versus_ reveals that not all of the yoma, the entities that the shinobi have dedicated heir lives to fighting, are evil beings — some, like Fubuki's mother, are perfectly capable of living normal, happy lives and starting a family. Unfortunately, the shinobi see all yoma as evil and so captured Fubuki's mother, separating her from her loving shinobi husband and their daughter. This is what caused Fubuki to become the Big Bad of the season who wants to kill all shinobi in retribution.
-   In _Tokyo Ghoul_, the titular beings are just as varied in their morality as ordinary humans. While there are many that are brutal sadists that enjoy killing humans, many others seek to find ways to live peacefully with humans as much as is possible. The story portrays both sides, sharing time between the moderates of Anteiku and the Ghoul Investigators of CCG. As such, we get to see many peaceful Ghouls that live in constant fear for their lives and have lost most (if not all) of their families to the investigators. In particular, one of the Starter Villains, Kureo Mado, sees nothing wrong with brutalizing Ghouls and expresses disgust at them "imitating" human feelings like maternal love or compassion. He hunts down a mother and daughter living quietly in the peaceful 20th Ward by taking advantage of their superior sense of smell and lures the daughter with "Daddy's scent". He also taunts the mother for being unable to fight before killing her with a weapon made from her husband. And he laughs with sadistic glee when he brings both weapons made from the parents to bear against their _daughter_.
-   In _Witch Hunter_, the whole plot was kick-started when a new religion speaking out against Witches, a group of women who are able to wield supernatural powers, started wide-scale witch hunts, killing countless innocent witches. In answer to this, North and South, two of the most powerful witches—who are without a doubt sadistic warmongerers who enjoy carnage—and their followers started their own genocide against humanity, killing almost 2/3 of all humans on _Earth_. The world-scale organization humans formed to combat these witches subverts this trope by having made it their mission to _limit_ witch deaths, instead capturing them alive and draining their magic, which has proven to be the reason so many of the humanity-hating ones are insane in the first place. They even employ and protect witches who are willing to fight for humanity and are, in fact, the only organization that treats humans and witches as equals.
    -   Any character in the series who wholeheartedly believes all witches should be killed, or simply kills witches for revenge, is clearly painted in the narrative as being a Jerkass for it.
-   _Witch Hunter Robin_ does this a lot in the second season. Every witch encountered by Robin thus far has gone power mad and evil...but then she begins encountering witches who engage in moral shades of gray and, finally, witches who are guilty of nothing but being picked out by her organization. And _they're_ the humane ones; it's implied organizations outside of Japan kill witches flat-out and the only reason her organization keeps witches around is to produce the magic suppressor "Orbo" from their bodies. In one episode, it's implied that the organization systematically destroyed the career, marriage, and finances of a potential witch who had never even used his powers. Destitute, he's forced to use his power to defend himself from some thugs and is taken in, put through some kind of magic lie detector, and given the choice to admit he is evil and join them or die for using his powers.
-   In _Yokai Girls_, the organization G-CUP tries to recruit the protagonist Nishizuru Yakki due to his powerful supernatural abilities. He opposes them after he learns they are dedicated to killing _all_ youkai — viewing them as abominations and threats to humanity regardless of whether or not they kill humans — and that the good youkai he has befriended are on their hit list.
-   _The Dark Queen and I Strike Back_ starts off with a genocidal first strike on the civilian town of monsters that the Demon Queen happens to be sealed in, with children being especially targeted. This convinces the protagonist to switch sides, hence the title.
    -   Then there's the military base Kuldluud, which has become a corporate concentration camp with gratuitous WWII-style executions everywhere. The base personnel enjoy turning their monster prisoners into bombs.
    -   And then there's the Artralian railgun, which is powered by _monster sacrifices_ where they're slaughtered like chickens and their severed heads are used as magical wetware until it burns out their brains.

    Comic Books 

-   In the _2000 AD_ story _Portals and Black Goo: The Night Shift_, Nona is a Vegetarian Vampire (in fact, a strict vegan who is also "haemoglobin intolerent") who is being stalked by a would-be vampire slayer, while the police take the view that all vampires are predators, not victims. It eventually turns out that the hunter is actually a guy she was at school with, who sent her a Valentines card shortly before she was turned, which she threw away. He's spun himself a narrative about how he's saving her and they'll be Together in Death, but it's pretty clear his actual motivation is just punishing her for rejecting him.
-   _Avengers: The Initiative:_ 3-D Man takes to killing any Skull he sees in _Secret Invasion_, including shooting Crusader, a Skrull who defected from the Queen's invasion plans and helps thwart it, simply on the grounds Crusader was a Skrull. Even after it's clear the rest of the Initiative despise him for this, he refuses to see he did anything wrong.
-   In _The Boys_, Billy Butcher and his group of humans intend to kill all superheroes because they're mostly villains with good publicity. At some point, Hughie asks Billy what about the ones who are genuinely good people, to which Billy simply responds _"Fuck them"_.
-   _Captain Britain and MI13_ had an arc where Blade joins the team to deal with a supernatural menace. Spitfire, who shows vampiric traits due to a WWII-era attack by a vampire, is on the team. When Blade first meets her, he tries to stake her. They soon end up in an Enemy Mine situation (namely, Dracula launching vampire missiles at Britain from his castle on the moon) and later start dating, making the attempted staking an unorthodox Meet Cute.
-   _Cilia_, in which the title character made the mistake of falling in love and living with a human. She is a cilophyte, human from the waist up and octopus on the other end. Other than eating live fish, there's not a shred of moral failing to her. Yet, explain that to the fisherman village who tortured and mutilated her beyond the possibility of recovery, leaving her alive solely so her husband would be forced to end her. A wonder that they refrained from selling her as sushi, but this being a horror comic, it was more than sufficient for Cilia's next-of-kin to get abyssal on their asses.
-   The Jersey Devil incident in _Hack/Slash_. Cassie and Vlad track it down and kill it, learning afterward that it was actually harmless, and put up a fearsome façade to keep people away so they didn't disturb its mother, who isn't so harmless. This is also brought up in another story, where the duo go after a violent vigilante (thinking he is a slasher) even though he has only been butchering unrepentant criminals, and has shown no interest in harming innocents.
-   In the Polish comic book series _Lil And Put_ ("Lil i Put") Gerwin the monster hunter wants to kill Kirki for being a goblin and doesn't give a rat's ass that Kirki is in fact nice and a mostly harmless pet of Miksja. At one point he even mentions that he doesn't care if innocent people get hurt as long as his job is done and his honor is intact.
-   The Termight Empire in _Nemesis the Warlock_ is _built_ on committing these. There are genuinely malevolent aliens out there, but they are very much in the minority and in no way justify the Empire's policies.
-   After being paralyzed by Shockwave when the Decepticons attacked an advanced oil rig she was working on in Marvel's _The Transformers_ comics, Josie Beller developed an advanced suit that allowed her to walk and granted her superpowers. As Circuit Breaker, she vowed to take the fight to the heartless machines that had crippled her. The problem was, she neither knew nor cared that there were two factions of robots, and that one of them was trying to _help_ the humans. Her hatred did not distinguish between Autobot and Decepticon, and she often wound up doing more harm than good, especially as the Autobots refused to harm her.
    -   She's not the last human to indiscriminately target all Transformers, either. They're a regular occurrence.
-   In _Venom_, after losing the Anti-Venom symbiote, Eddie Brock expands his kill list from just Venom and starts hunting down all symbiote-wearers in order to prevent the coming of what the Toxin symbiote called the Spawning. This includes anti-heroes like Shriek and outright heroes like Hybrid, the latter of whom he expresses regret for killing but does so anyways. He continues his crusade even after bonding to the Toxin symbiote and is called out on his hypocrisy by Agent Venom.
-   The comic book series _Wolff and Byrd_ has a restraining order served to a woman whose "sacred duty" is to hunt down and kill vampires, in what's obviously a take on _Buffy_.
-   _Wonder Woman (1987)_: After Artemis returns as a demon hunter she is determined to kill Jason Blood even after Diana, while holding the Lasso of Truth meaning Temi _knows_ she can't be lying, says that Artemis is wrong about Jason being a soulless monster while she's fighting Diana and Cassie and endangering passerbys to try and get at him.

    Fanfiction 

-   _Gravity Falls Transcendence AU_: Due to their connection to Dipper/Alcor, the Pines family got on the receiving end of this quite a few times.
-   In _The Many Dates of Danny Fenton_, it is revealed that the Guys in White are perfectly willing to abduct and experiment on all supernatural beings whether or not they are doing anything wrong, including the girls from Monster High.
-   In the _Rosario + Vampire_ fanfic _My Snow Girl_, this trope is referenced by the monsters having slasher films about ruthless, seemingly unkillable humans stalking and murdering innocent vampires.
-   _Nosflutteratu_: Twilight takes a while to come to terms with the fact that Fluttershy is a vampire; unlike most examples, she doesn't WANT to hurt Fluttershy, unless she gets proof that she's lost control and started attacking ponies. Rainbow Dash even calls her "Van Horsing" during their argument. Garlic Flank Stake also acts like this, apparently believing that if a vampire hasn't started killing ponies, they will soon, but she immediately relents once she finds out that the vampire is Fluttershy.
-   Acknowledged but subverted in the _Once Upon a Time_/_Supernatural_ crossover _Once Upon a Supernatural Time_; once the curse is broken, the people of Storybrooke are concerned that the Winchesters are going to kill them just because they're supernatural creatures, but Dean and Sam both affirm that they're not going to kill the residents of the town just because they're magical, and Sam is explicitly relieved to find proof that Ruby is different from the werewolves of his world as there are ways for her to control her transformation.
-   _Rosario Vampire: Brightest Darkness_:
    -   Most of Rason's fellow angels refuse to see monsters as being anything but evil beasts, and humans as near-pristine examples of goodness. Rason was actually banished from heaven because he saved a female monster from an evil human. It took Rason's efforts to save Luna and Falla from his fellow angels in Act IV, as well as direct interference from God Himself, to get the angels to start thinking differently, and by the end, they've realized and accepted that not all monsters are bad.
    -   The Human Defense Agency, or HDA, that came into being after Alucard's attack and the subsequent exposure of monsters, is also fairly quick to write off all monsters as evil simply because of the actions of a few people, with one soldier flat-out telling Moka and Akasha to their faces that, as far as he's concerned, monsters like them aren't even animals. However, Moka and Akasha's efforts in Act VI with their director, including more than a few The Reason You Suck Speeches about how these guys are the main obstacle to peace between humans and monsters and being incredibly stupid and bigoted even in the face of monsters saving lives, seem to be making some progress.

    Film — Animated 

-   The core Aesop of Disney's _Beauty and the Beast_ is about vanity and selfishness, and not getting obsessed with appearances. Gaston riled up the crowd to this trope, but he himself is not guilty of it. He wants to kill the Beast because he sees him as competition for Belle. He also has no trouble believing the Beast is harmless, but, being a Jerkass, he actually mocks him for it.
-   _Hotel Transylvania 3: Summer Vacation_ portrays Abraham Van Helsing as viewing all monsters as a threat to humanity (when this is far from true) and seeking to exterminate them. His great-granddaughter Ericka assists him in this plan but ends up having a change of heart. So does Abraham.
-   _ParaNorman_ has this with the zombified elder council - they're simply trying to tell Norman how to stop the witch, but their mere presence spurs the townspeople to violence. And of course, their condition is a curse placed on them for engaging in this behavior in the past, executing a young girl for simply having supernatural abilities that they didn't understand.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   The vampire movie _Blood Ties_ (no, _not_ based on the Canadian series) takes this trope to a whole new level, with a group of vampire hunters who appear on a _Jerry Springer_ knock-off and sound a lot like the Klan.
-   Mordo does this in _Doctor Strange_ to the sorcerers, some of whom like Pangborn only use sorcery to avoid being disabled and otherwise don't actually _practise_ magic.
-   In Lucio Fulci's _Don't Torture a Duckling_, the townspeople blame a string of child murders on a reclusive, unpopular, Hollywood Homely witch and lynch her based on zero evidence. The murders continue.
-   _Fido_ depicts an alternate reality where zombies have been domesticated by collars that suppress their urge to feed. However, Bill Robinson hates them even though the titular zombie is shown to be capable of compassion even when his collar malfunctions.
-   _I Am Legend_ was intended to lead up to this, and still does in the alternate ending on the DVD release.
-   The Paladins in _Jumper_ justify their crusade by claiming that only God should have that kind of power. Granted, most Jumpers shown are jerks who have little real interest in using their powers for anything but their own benefit, but they are never shown using their powers to do anything more criminal than stealing money.
-   Played with in _The Last Witch Hunter_: Kaulder is actually a pretty chill guy, only going after witches he knows have broken the law, and turns them over to the Witch Council to be fairly tried. This doesn't stop the magical community from spinning wild stories about his psychotic cruelty (apparently he's known as a Faux Affably Evil Serial Killer who would walk up to a witch, talk, and then _suddenly_ cut off their heads and puts them in a Bag of Holding as Creepy Souvenir) and giving him such a fearsome reputation that him walking in to a witch bar clears the entire place out before he even makes it to the counter.
-   The vampire family in _The Little Vampire_ are (mostly) a kind and compassionate clan of Vegetarian Vampires, but the vampire hunter Rookery keeps obsessively trying to kill them all anyway. He even has a twisted version of the vampires' mystical amulet intended to turn them all back into human beings; _his_ will instead send them all to hell.
-   In _Men in Black_, the eponymous organization seems to only accept candidates who are an aversion of this trope, which makes sense as most aliens on Earth are not bad and are simply supervised by the Men in Black. When James Edwards (Jay) went into the final round, they were given target practice. All the other candidates, who seemed to view all the cut-out alien targets as basically monsters, shot only aliens and refused to shoot any human targets; they were all rejected. Edwards did not shoot any of the aliens; for example, because one was simply clearly working out while another was blowing its nose, and shot only the target of the little human girl at the end, because she was carrying a book on quantum mechanics down a street filled with scary-looking aliens in the middle of the night and therefore appeared out of place and highly suspicious.
-   _Modern Vampires_ tries to frame the vampires this way by having Van Helsing as a literal Nazi, but it falls flat when all but one or two of the vampire protagonists unrepentantly murders and drains people whenever they feel like it beyond just needing to drink blood to survive, and Dracula's nightclub hosts human trafficking as a source of food for the vampires.
-   _The Monster Club_: Pickering and The Blini—a Men In Black vampire hunting group—are dedicated to hunting down and exterminating all vampires; including Vegetarian Vampire Mr. Busotsky (who survives by feeding on drunks and whose motto is 'feed without greed'). After he is bitten by Busotsky, Pickering's underlings immediately turn on him and drive a Wooden Stake through his heart.
-   Clive Barker's _Nightbreed_, where the monstrous and reclusive Midianites are attacked by human cops who refuse to leave them alone. The psychiatrist helping the police also happens to be a Serial Killer. And he's played by David Cronenberg.
-   _The Shape of Water_. Since the Amphibian Man (an expy for the Creature from the Black Lagoon) is actually the film's romantic hero, the monster hunter - who would have been the hero if the movie were made in the '50s or '60s - is the villain, and his contempt for the creature is specifically linked to his more mundane bigotries.
-   _Transformers: Age of Extinction_: Cemetery Wind, a Black Ops Task-Force from the CIA that was initially tasked by the U.S. Government with the mission of hunting down any remaining Decepticons following the events of Chicago. However, at some point, Harold Attinger the leader of the task force began ordering his men to start targeting the Autobots purely out of him Feeling Oppressed by Their Existence and wanting to create his own army of mindless Transformer drones loyal to the United States in order to fight in wars, all the while his superiors in Washington are demanding him to report back on how he's hunting "The enemy Decepticons".
-   _Van Helsing_:
    -   Averted (ironically enough) as Van Helsing is reluctant to kill Frankenstein's monster because he can see he's not actually evil, and Van Helsing does seem to feel remorse for having to kill people who've become monsters, like werewolves and Dr. Jekyll.
    -   Played straight by the Knights of the Holy Order. They order the monster's execution on the grounds that its existence is a danger to the world despite him being a kindly and religious being.
-   _Vamps_: R. Van Helsing isn't aware at first that not all vampires are killers, so he's after them equally. He later learns the error of his ways, however, on meeting Stacy and Goody. They ally with him to destroy their maker, who really is a killer.
-   Zombie comedy _Wasting Away_ explores this by being set from the zombies' point of view—the four leads don't realize they've been zombified, look perfectly normal to each other, and think that it's _everyone else_ who's acting weird (their undead brainwaves run slower, so normal humans move and talk in an incomprehensibly fast manner).

    Gamebooks 

-   While the _Fighting Fantasy_ series of books have their share of the forces of chaos, there's also neutral chaotics, which, unfortunately, ends up being pursued by the Hunter of Monsters showing up in their respective books.
    -   _Howl of the Werewolf_ has one of the most prominent examples with Van Ricten, a werebeast hunter who's sworn to rid the land of lycanthropes, regardless of their alignment. Which proves problematic, because your character was an unlucky adventurer suffering from lycanthropy and trying to find and kill the werewolf lord responsible for your predicament. While Ricten proves to be a useful ally when you're attacked by hostile werebeasts, the moment you accidentally reveal your lycanthropy to him, he _will_ try to kill you, never mind you're both sharing the same goal.
    -   Van Ricten's brother, Josef, shows up in another entry, _Night of the Necromancer_, except he's a hunter of ghosts, and once more it works against your favour because your character is a Revenant only trying to stop the titular Necromancer after your assassination. Too bad Josef doesn't really care and will relentlessly try to imprison you.
    -   **You** become one of these in _Magehunter_, as a hunter of mages and wizards, at one point killing a mage who saved your friend, Reinhardt, and when Reinhardt protests you simply retort with "killing mages is my job".

    Literature 

-   In _Anno Dracula_, Jack the Ripper is a vampire hunter and is seen in exactly the same way as the real Ripper was (that is, most people think he's a monster, but a handful don't see the women he kills as really being people). The sequels also occasionally reference it, most notably a sociopathic Captain Ersatz Buffy in _Johnny Alucard_, who turns out to be being manipulated by an actually evil vampire posing as her Watcher-counterpart.
-   Tanya Huff's _Blood Trail_ centers around this. The protagonist is called in to discover who's been murdering the local pack of werewolves; it turns out to be a religious neighbor who'd discovered their nature and decided to do God's work by killing the soulless abominations. When one of them saves his life, he realizes how badly he was mistaken and, unable to deal with it, kills himself.

-   _The Dracula Tape_ by Fred Saberhagen, where Dracula is a mostly harmless individual who's harassed by the Harkers (who are clueless) and Van Helsing (who's a religious fanatic). Which means that is a case of a Van Helsing Hate Crime committed by... Van Helsing.
-   _The Dresden Files_ loves to play with this trope, given that it's a fantasy series and also a detective serial, so they are obligated to use every "things are not always as they seem" in the book:
    -   Played Straight: Harry's interactions with the vampires can initially and later literally be called "genocidal", but later in the series, it's made clear that they are not necessarily evil or even harmful, with several vampires of various types joining his list of regular contacts.
        -   It's worth mentioning that there are several types of vampires in the Dresdenverse: the Black Court are unholy abominations against life itself, the Red Court are demons in human suits, and the White Court are Emotion Eaters. Most of his contacts are in the White Court since they're much more human than the other types of vampires (and at least can see the value in occasionally helping him to be the good guy).
        -   It's also worth mentioning that Red Court vamps can only become full vampires by killing a human and drinking their lifeblood. So _every_ Red Court vamp has committed at least one murder, and probably a whole lot more than one. However, the intent behind said killing seems to be irrelevant: one Red Court vampire (Susan) turns after killing a man whom she had just learned was responsible for her daughter being kidnapped and almost used as a human sacrifice.
        -   It is more that the White Court prefer to rule through subterfuge and manipulation. The Black Court want to kill and slaughter and the Red Court want to subjugate through force (and are at war with the Council). So the White Court are definitely still, by and large, evil and dangerous. But in a manner that is a "lesser of two evils" kind of way.
    -   Averted: The Knights of the Cross, called by God to hunt evil and defend the innocent, are actually quite reasonable, understanding people who take the stance that redemption is within anyone's reach, human or monster. Eventually, they reveal that their core purpose is to redeem people possessed by literal fallen angels, up to that point presented as their worst enemies.Heavily Averted: One of the Knights is such a redeemed.
    -   Played Straight with Harry's Mentor Archetype and Grandfather Ebenezar McCoy, who has a deep-seated hatred towards all vampires, but specifically targets the White Court in particular because his daughter was killed by their leader Lord Raith. He effectively undergoes a Rage Breaking Point when he learns that Thomas is Harry's half-brother and by extension, his grandson.
-   The title character in _Eden Green_ makes it her mission to destroy every human infected with an alien needle symbiote, including her best friend.
-   In _Girls Kingdom_ Lady Angelica is a friendly neighborhood vampire, who would never hurt a soul who's not trying to hurt her or members of the student body (or try to turn them). The problem is that there's a vampire hunter on campus who just doesn't care, and is actively trying to kill her as well as Misaki, who is very much not a vampire, due to a case of mistaken identity.
-   _Heralds of Valdemar_ is a setting where magic nukes set off thousands of years ago left the Pelagirs as a place where life twists in unsettling ways. Humans living there can find themselves or their children changed in strange ways. Evil mages like the look of those changes and often alter themselves similarly, generally giving themselves animal features - and _only_ evil mages like the look, apparently. "Changechildren", whether or not they're evil mages, are generally reviled by the Tayledras cleansing the Pelagirs, and by the folks beyond.
    -   In _Mage Winds_, Nyara was used as a guinea pig to test Cat Folk changes before her father applied them to himself. She ran away and then was injured while rescuing some of the Tayledras Darkwind's charges from a situation he was helpless to assist in. Darkwind, inspecting her, realized that she was a Sexy Cat Person and in sudden fury thought that if she'd changed _herself_ he would kill her. His Clan is one of the ones _less_ hostile to Changechildren in that the policy isn't universally to kill them on sight, but when he tells the Elders about her one of them immediately demands to have her bound and staked.
    -   Mages are fairly common in the setting, working for cities and noble families and running schools, but not in Valdemar. In the third book of the _Last Herald-Mage Trilogy_, few Herald-Mages remain and the last of them, Vanyel Ashkevron, is highly paranoid of mages who aren't Heralds or Tayledras. When Karse cracks down on mages and they flee into Valdemar, Vanyel wants the refugees hurried right out of the country. He contrives harsh, sanity-breaking measures to keep mages out, and while experiencing them himself muses that he could almost feel sorry for an innocent mage. _Almost_. This leads to quite a lot of trouble for sympathetic foreign mages, or for Valdemarans manifesting the Mage-Gift.
-   In _The House of Night_, The Fundamentalist Christians are accused of brutally murdering two teachers at the House of Night. Averted when Neferet is revealed to have arranged their deaths.
-   _I Am Legend_ is the Trope Codifier, if not the Ur-Example. Robert Neville, the last human on Earth, spends his nights being tormented by vampires trying to get into his house and his days finding and slaying the creatures in their sleep. The title of the book comes from the end, where Neville discovers that some of the vampires have learned to stop acting like monsters and have begun to form a new society. Since Neville was unaware of their presence, and he's been slaughtering vampires indiscriminately for _years_, he's slain a large number of the good vampires. Neville realizes to his horror that they view him as a monster, and he takes a suicide pill before they can execute him.
-   _InCryptid_: This is the cause of the Price/Healy family's feud with the Covenant. When Alexander and Enid Healy, monster hunters born into the Covenant, discovered the effects that the thoughtless extermination of cryptids was having on the environment (the extirpation of unicorns from Britain is cited as the cause for the great cholera epidemic), they immediately quit and moved to America. The blood feud didn't _really_ heat up until their great-granddaughter Alice married the agent sent to see if they were harmless, persuading him to quit in the process. The Prices only kill cryptids if there's no other option to protect the environment, instead of the Covenant's heedless approach.
-   The Palatine Guard of Meg Cabot's _Insatiable_ series see nothing wrong with torturing a captive vampire, especially since nothing short of outright killing one would leave any evidence. Alaric Wulf, one such Guard, repeatedly makes the argument that since the Big Bad who gravely injured his partner is a vampire, he is fully justified in summarily killing any and all vampires he meets, and any human who dares harbor one. In the first book, during the climactic battle against the Big Bad and his minions, the Palatine Guard repeatedly shoot the vampire protagonist Lucien in the back (he survives because he is just that badass). For some reason, all this inspires the female protagonist Meena to join the Palatine Guard.
-   A major plot point in the _Kitty Norville_ series. It takes place in The Unmasqued World, and a lot of people aren't happy to know that werewolves and vampires (and a lot of other things) are out there. At least four of the novels so far have featured normal humans treating Kitty like she's a monster, from accusing her of mauling cows with no evidence of it to trying to kill her.
    -   Kitty herself came out of the closet due to a hired monster hunter attacking her on air in the first book.
    -   In the _second_ book, a bunch of Knight Templar Christians kidnapped her on the day of a full moon, shoved her into a room painted with silver, pointed a camera at her, and then hijacked all the local airwaves. Their goal was to show that werewolves and the like were monsters and needed to be exterminated. Problem was that Kitty, instead of attacking everything, curled up in the corner and whimpered as she was in so much pain. So instead of seeing a bloodthirsty beast, the world saw a woman kidnapped, forced to undergo a transformation she had no control over, and then tortured by a bunch of religious extremists. The ringleader, a _United States senator_, as a desperate last move grabbed a guy and forced his arm through the bars for Kitty to maul. She wasn't tempted.
-   In the _Lonely Werewolf Girl_ books, the guild of Werewolf Hunters has no backstory to explain exactly why they are hunting werewolves, so tends to come across as this. Especially since their targets include a fashion designer, a pair of tourists, a pair of punk singers, and their manager.
-   Funnily enough, a major theme of _Monster Blood Tattoo_ - Rossamund bringing the issue up with Europe (She Who Fights Monsters (literally)) is a major catalyst for their character development.
-   In the _Monster Hunter International_ novels, pretty much every monster race is considered a threat to humanity to be hunted down and killed for a bounty on sight. To be fair, most of them are. But the government steps on the rights of those who have proven themselves civilized whenever it suits them to. Most notably, every time a major war breaks out, someone in the DOD revokes the PUFF exemption of Earl Harbinger (a 100-year-old werewolf, and one of the few who has genuine control of his actions at full moon) so that they can force him to earn a new one by serving a tour of duty in a special forces unit, despite having no genuine grounds to do so.
-   In _The Mortal Instruments_, this was a long time common among the shadowhunters. They have hunted and killed the downworlders for little or no reason at all. According to Jace, it was a great step to consider downworlders as like humans, rather than like demons.
-   The titular _Night Huntress_ is convinced that all vampires are bloodsucking demons. After she learns that not all of them are evil, she realizes that some of the vampires she killed may just have been looking for a snack and a one-night stand, and killing them may not have been self-defense.
-   Dealt with extensively in one section of _Night Watch (Series)_. Forces of darkness and light exist, but have a treaty keeping each other in strict balance. Enter a guy who only knows that he can sense evil and it must be eliminated. It doesn't help that he's part of the _Light_ side, and in this universe, you can't switch sides.
-   _Pale_: The witch hunters of the Lighthouse tend towards shooting first and asking questions never when it comes to monsters and witches alike. Many Others are indeed predatory-others are simply desperate, forced to the fringes of humanity by the Seal of Solomon and left with no option beyond preying on humans. Ultimately, the witch hunters tend to target the weakest of monsters and witches-the ones that do the least harm on the whole, and those that are Willfully Weak. They sometimes even make deals with the more powerful practitioners to target nuisances, becoming agents of the status quo.
    -   Exaggerated with the Lighthouse leader, Samaniego. When Avery asks him what he wants, he responds by asking Avery to write down what she wants the most on a piece of paper and to place it face down. When she does, without reading it, he points to it and tells her that he wants to stop her getting whatever she wrote down.
-   _Red Moon Rising (Moore)_: Poachers hunt moon-runners (wulves who Change outside the compounds) without regard for who they are as people. There were also the _Werewulf Jaegers_, an extension of the SS that hunted werewolves and put them in separate concentration camps during the holocaust.
-   _Rivers of London_: This is raised by Peter in _Moon Over Soho_, along with the thorny problem of Inhumanable Alien Rights when it comes to sapient individuals who are carrying out paranormal crime. He makes the point that the courts are the place to deal with them, not just arbitrarily hunting them down and executing them. Ultimately, the author chooses to Take a Third Option in resolving it.
-   _The Twilight Saga_ includes a tribe of wolf shapeshifters whose magic is intended to help them protect humanity from vampires. Their relationship with the Cullen family, who have vowed to consume only animal blood, is tense, especially in _Breaking Dawn_, in which Jacob narrowly averts open warfare, then later almost starts the war himself. Then once Jacob imprints with Renesmee, he and the other werewolves stand back and allow humans to be slaughtered by several visiting vampires just because said vampires are willing to protect Renesmee from the Vampire Council.
-   In _Unique_ the Veiðimaðr are all over this one. Some of them have gone to prison when their would-be victims called the cops on the strangers in town with too many guns and explosives and not enough permits. Others specifically prefer to let The Men in Black hand the names and addresses of supernatural baddies who merit death; not because they're nonhuman but because they've committed violent felonies. The werewolves think of the hunters as The Dreaded.
-   Vampire hunters are a major enemy in _The United States of Monsters_ (particularly the _Bright Falls Mysteries_ and _Straight Outta Fangton_) as they serve as domestic terrorists in The Unmasqued World. This serves as a major source of the protagonist's angst, as he knows vampires are The Mafia and ruthless killers, but the people fighting them are arguably worse.
-   _The Vampire Files_: Happens in _Quincy Morris, Vampire_, which follows the story of the man who killed Dracula when he rose as a vampire himself. Trying to convince Van Helsing that he only drank animal blood wasn't very effective. In-story, his type of vampire is compared to a hunting dog vs Dracula's vicious wolf.
-   Generally defied in _The Witcher_. The Witcher's Code (which doesn't really exist; Geralt made it up to give him an excuse to turn down jobs that he disagrees with) states clearly that Witchers cannot kill sapient monsters without provocation or evidence of any wrongdoing on their part. Witchers are treated as monsters by the general public even though they're just humans augmented into quasi-super soldiers with alchemy and magic, and many experienced Witchers can attest that many times humans are little better than monsters themselves, so monsters with complex personalities and sympathetic motives appear often. In particular, Geralt actively refuses to kill dragons (which are intelligent, endangered, and generally avoid humans unless provoked), and has no problem interacting peaceably with the more intelligent varieties of vampire (for whom blood is more euphoric drug than food).

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Angel_ dealt with this trope head-on in "That Old Gang of Mine", when it turned out that Gunn's old demon-slaying gang had started turning its sights on _all_ demons, no matter how harmless they were. This appears to have been mostly out of boredom after the vampire nest they had used to fight was wiped out.
    -   As the series progressed, _Angel_ became like a Gothic version of _Star Trek_ in a lot of ways, in the sense that _demon_ was a catchall word that described a _lot_ of different species; and though plenty of them were evil, in some cases, the word _demon_ didn't rightfully imply anything negative about them at all. In the case of characters like Lorne and (later) Illyria, the value-neutral term _extraterrestrial_ would have been a lot more appropriate.
        -   Illyria probably is 'evil', or was originally. Or at least was Cthulhu, completely uncaring about lesser species and seeing them, at best, as pawns, if she saw them at all. It's just she doesn't understand the new world at all and is without (most of) her powers and followers. Even all of her enemies are dead. She's only 'good' because the other people willing to explain things to her insist she behave in a certain way.
    -   Holtz, who—well, suffice to say, Angel's vampirism is only Holtz's _second_ most pressing reason for wanting him dead - Angelus and Darla killed Holtz's wife and baby son, and turned his young daughter into a vampire, forcing him to dust her. Holtz is fully aware of Angel's curse, but, unlike most other characters, he denies that this makes any ethical difference: "I will never agree that he has somehow been absolved from the past by the presence of his soul." Given his historical timeframe, this is pretty accurate for Holtz. Angel and Angelus are, essentially, the same being to him. That Angel feels bad is fine and good, but it's really up to God to forgive him if God feels Angel's suffered enough. Until then, Angelus has escaped mortal judgment time and again and is still an abomination.
    -   Holtz's attitude is actually very similar to Angel's own—both consider Angel responsible for what he did as Angelus. It's just that Angel is trying to make up for it while Holtz thinks he needs to die. Angel can never really make the claim that Holtz is _wrong_ for pursuing his vendetta against him. He doesn't even try. Except when Holtz hurts other people in the process.
    -   In "Hero", a gang of demons arrive in LA and start killing "abominations": any demon who is even slightly human or half human, like one of the main characters, Doyle, or any vampire at all. According to the previous _Buffy_ finale, they weren't purebloods themselves, either. The Nazi analogy isn't all that subtle, is it? This is _the_ Angel theme. Some monsters aren't so bad!
    -   "Judgment" has Angel accidentally kill the defender of a woman pregnant with a Chosen One because he was a member of a usually violent species of demon (and Angel was given bad information about him by a snitch with an agenda), who was a Buddhist monk to boot. Until he takes up the role himself (protector, not Buddhist monk).
-   In one episode of _Beetleborgs_, a young vampire hunter attempts to slay Count Fangula, who is actually quite harmless and poses no danger to anyone in the nearby town, due to his incompetence. After the vampire hunter is scared by Flabber, disguised as a dragon, he proclaims Fangula to be an insignificant vampire, being more trouble than he is worth, thus allowing Fangula to live.
-   Father Kemp of _Being Human_ has no qualms about killing most of Bristol's vampire population, kills werewolves under the guise of helping them, and forcibly exorcises ghosts. He does this in spite of a good number of them actually being decent people just trying to live a normal life, to the point that he is incapable of considering the idea that the vampire Mitchell could form a genuinely platonic relationship with werewolf George.
-   On _Big Wolf on Campus_, "Muffy the Werewolf Slayer" showed up, intending to hunt down and kill the protagonist; she was eventually convinced that, no, honest, Tommy was a _good_ werewolf, though she found the concept pretty freaky. (Every other werewolf seen on the show is at minimum a Punch-Clock Villain and more likely a man-eating psychopath, so her surprise is understandable.)
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ mostly ignores this in the earlier seasons, until it is tackled head-on with the Initiative in season 4. They lump every non-human under 'evil', even going as far as experimenting on an untransformed, conscious werewolf. Riley, a member of the Initiative, makes negative comments about Oz being a werewolf, leading to Buffy angrily calling him a bigot. However, when the Initiative begin to do the aforementioned experiments on Oz, he snaps out of it. In the episode "Phases" Buffy goes up against a werewolf hunter who sees nothing wrong with the fact that a werewolf is human most of the time (all day every day and all but three nights out of every month), but he is more of an amoral, greedy monster hunter than a bigoted, fanatical monster hunter.
    -   It usually doesn't come up because Buffy herself only hunts the demons that murder and terrorize people and leaves more gregarious ones like Clem alone. In Season 3, she tells Faith to spare one who seems like more of a scumbag than a "deadly threat to humanity" (Faith ends up killing him later anyway because he's trying to sell Buffy copies of the evil mayor's Books of Ascension and Faith is The Mole). Going into the local demon bars, she tends to shake down the patrons for information rather than slay them, as they're too smart to attack her. She even lets Spike live after he's chipped by the aforementioned Initiative and can't harm humans, although he's still evil, because he's physically helpless.
    -   Certain segments of the fandom began to accuse Buffy herself of this after Spike's ongoing redemption arc; the argument runs that if Spike, a soulless vampire, is capable of seeking redemption without the impact of a soul, then so are all other vampires - and therefore Buffy killing them, in several cases before they even get the chance to prove themselves one way or the other (numerous vampires have been staked within moments of coming out of the ground), is an act of bigotry. Of course, this ignores that Spike's case was not only extremely rare but only possible because of a very specific set of circumstances, like being chipped, that put him in a position to develop emotional bonds with Buffy and Dawn that would motivate him to seek out the demonic trials that would restore his soul.
-   This happens—sorta kinda—in "Clarimonde", the 1998 TV adaptation of _The Dead Leman_. The title character is an old witch who keeps herself alive and beautiful by having sex with the Catholic priests. She does not rape or hurt the men, but in the end, she is killed.
-   _First Kill_: The vampire hunters believe that all vampires are irredeemably evil monsters who will kill innocent humans so they have to be destroyed without mercy. However, Cal questions this after meeting Juliette, a vampire she's attracted to who's a nice girl disturbed by the idea of killing humans for sustenance. Her family still plans to kill Juliette along with the rest.
-   In a unique variant, _Friday the 13th: The Series_ once featured a hunter who killed _humans_ in order to empower a cursed cross he could wield against vampires. Granted, the vampires in question weren't necessarily of the Friendly Neighborhood variety, but this guy's priorities were clearly whacked.
-   A _Grimm_ inevitably has this reputation among the creatures hiding their presence by living among humans. As Grimms have the ability to see them for what they really are if they lose control, they've historically been known to mercilessly hunt and slaughter non-humans. Nick, however, being a police officer, tries to treat them as he would anyone else once he figures out what's going on, and prefers to arrest the ones who break the law whenever possible, rather than hunting them. That said, even the ones who legitimately try to live normal lives can be extremely dangerous. Even Monroe, the Friendly Neighborhood Big Bad Wolf, only says that he doesn't kill people _anymore_ and ended up ripping a guy's arm off when he lost control in a fight.
    -   Interestingly, we later learn in the second series that there is a Renegade Splinter Faction of Grimm who are _even worse_ and consider decapitation to be the finale of a good week of solid torture. Monroe explains that these guys became so bad, the Wesen felt that they had no choice but to fight back, with the Reapers being the end result.
-   Emil Danko of _Heroes_ has the job of capturing evil people with powers. However, he hates everyone with an ability and rounds them all up.
-   _Highlander_ had James Horton and the Renegade Watchers from season 2 who wanted to kill all of the Immortals, believing them to be perversions of nature. This is turned around in the two-part episode Judgment Day/One Minute To Midnight. Immortal Jacob Galati is killing off all the Watchers (good or bad), after Horton and his followers killed his wife, Irene, and tried to do the same to him. He didn't care that most of them were innocent.
-   In _Kamen Rider Decade_ when the group arrives in Kiva's World, a man walks into the photo studio and asks for their services, before suddenly transforming into a Fangire. When Tsukasa transforms into Decade to fight, the Fangire flees in fear and shouts about being persecuted. It's only a while later that the protagonists find out that in this world, humans and Fangires live in peace. Or at least tries to, but not everyone agrees...
-   In the Netflix adaptation of _October Faction_, it turns out that Presidio is doing this; although there are legitimately bad warlocks/werewolves/etc who hurt innocents, most are just regular people trying to live their lives. Interestingly, the series also takes the tack of making this stack with human hate crimes. In a flashback, the white Anti-Villain's husband, who is black, explains that he faces just as much danger for the color of his skin as for his species, pointing out that his ancestors weren't just targeted for being warlocks, they were _lynched_, and tells her she needs to understand this because it also applies to their future children.
-   _Secret Invasion (2023)_: After being attacked by a Renegade Splinter Faction of Skrulls who are trying to eliminate humanity so they can take Earth as their new homeworld, President Ritson goes on television and declares that _all_ extraterrestrials are to leave the planet or be hunted down. Not only does this ignore that there were Skrulls who had been actively aiding SHIELD for decades, some like Talos gave their lives trying to protect him and others from the hostile faction. His message also sparks a wave of vigilante attacks on both Skrulls and innocent humans who were either mistakenly targeted or killed by opportunists looking to use the anti-Skrull hysteria as an excuse. And that doesn't even touch on how this policy will effect other extraterrestrials on Earth, like New Asgard.
-   _Supernatural_:
    -   Goes on the assumption that all monsters are naturally evil, but occasionally throws a curve ball, like in "Bloodlust" when Sam and Dean encounter a group of vampires who abstain from human blood and feed on cattle. Dean earlier killed a vampire who turned out to be part of this group, and is disturbed by the thought that some of the creatures he's killed might not have been evil.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Gordon Walker, however, sees no difference between them and any other vampire, and Sam and Dean have to stop him from killing them all. However, later seasons have stressed the moral issues of the job of hunting, as it has been revealed that most of the major threats, including demons, were human at some point.
    -   Also contains an example in Sam himself, who is revealed to have psychic powers as a result of demon blood fed to him as a baby. Although Sam is a hunter with good intentions throughout (even if those good intentions don't always bring good results), Gordon is dead set on killing him, because Gordon makes no distinction between good and evil when it comes to the supernatural and cannot be convinced that Sam is on their side, believing him to be some form of Anti-Christ. This eventually leads to Gordon's death. By barbed-wire decapitation.
    -   Dean absolutely refuses to trust Ruby on grounds that she's a demon, asking Sam on several occasions why they haven't killed her yet, despite her insisting that all she wants to do is help the boys out because she remembers being human and the lack of evidence to the contrary until after Dean goes to Hell. Turns out he was right.
    -   Benny, a vampire Dean met in Purgatory who helped him escape on the condition that Dean took Benny with him, claims to be surviving off of stolen blood transfusions—and, so far, there hasn't been any evidence that he's lying about this—but that hasn't stopped Sam from wanting to chop off his head since the moment they met. Which may also have to do with jealousy that Dean trusts Benny. Eventually, Benny proves himself when he sacrifices himself to go back to Purgatory to save Sam and Bobby from Hell, but he then chooses to stay in Purgatory because he has realized that he doesn't fit in on Earth anymore.
    -   In "Freaks and Geeks", hunter Victor Rogers trains a group of teenage Hunters—all of whom have the requisite traumatic past—to kill vampires by setting them on newly embraced vampires who've been framed for grisly murders. Worse still, he's been colluding with a genuinely evil vampire to accomplish this.
    -   The British Men of Letters in Season 12, led by the discplinarian Doctor Hess. Between killing friendly monsters, killing a human psychic girl, who was unaware that she was killing others by using her abilities to call for help that the Winchesters saved from her religious abusive family, on the grounds that she's a monster, and really having no issue with Cold-Blooded Torture, killing or brainwashing hunters or even their own members for slightest sign of disobedience, the British Men of Letters are arguably far worse than the so-called monsters they kill. Their leadership is corrupt to the core, Mr. Arthur Ketch (their assassin) is The Sociopath (and outright stated as such) and an amoral hitman with no real belief in their ideology and only in it to satisfy his killer urges, and their code includes killing everything that is a monster (no matter if good or evil) and their operatives are Child Soldiers raised and indoctrinated in the code and then made to kill their friends to see if they're obedient, and at one point they kill another hunter Sam and Dean worked with because she killed one of their operatives even though they know that the death was an _accident_. This haunts Mick Davies and eventually causes him to switch sides to the Winchesters only to get killed as He Has Outlived His Usefulness. For all their anti-monster propaganda, the leadership has a backroom Deal with the Devil with Crowley himself. It only gets worse from there. Sam, in the Season 12 two-part finale, concludes that the British branch has crossed the Moral Event Horizon and leads a raid on their compound, killing all those present and cutting ties with the organization after the British Men of Letters start killing all the hunters. Needless to say, the American branch that Sam and Dean are a remnant of were very different, lacked the extremism and really had the best intentions at heart.
    -   In the Season 15 episode "The Heroes' Journey", Dean and Sam take it upon themselves to destroy a fight club where monsters voluntarily fight... other monsters. For the entertainment of spectators who are also monsters. Needless to say, this activity in and of itself poses no threat to human beings. Their reasoning is that with any gathering of monsters that large in one area, they must be preying on the locals. But they are not shown even trying to confirm whether or not this is true.
-   The Hunters on _Teen Wolf_ seem to go this route more often than not. Although in theory they have a Code that restricts them to hunting only werewolves that harm humans, most of them seem to have little problem with ignoring it and killing any werewolves they find. They have actually developed such a self-righteous attitude towards their mission that they are even willing to torture and kill ordinary humans if it suits their goals, whether those humans actually have anything to do with werewolves or not. Combined with how well-equipped they are and the way that they generally outgun their victims by a wide margin, this creates the impression that they are thrill killers rather than protectors of humanity.
    -   Their willingness to tolerate Scott is due to a complicated mix of him being a minor, not having killed anyone, and being important to Allison. Even so, this is a very tenuous tolerance, as shown by Gerard stabbing Scott in the gut and Victoria trying to murder him because they were still dating despite having been ordered to break up.
-   _True Blood_ is a HBO series based upon the _The Sookie Stackhouse Mysteries_ novels by Charlaine Harris. Harris's vampires have "come out of the coffin", politically speaking, and since, naturally, "God hates Fangs", there are more than a few religious types who find this disturbing.
-   The UK miniseries _Ultraviolet (1998)_ centers around the moral progression of the main character after he kills his friend-turned-vampire and joins up with the people hunting them. According to them, vampires, or Code Fives, are a "public health problem" who must be neutralized before they can organize any further. When it's revealed that the Code Fives don't actually murder their prey, but, even more importantly, are close to designing viable synthetic blood, Michael's role begins to change.
-   _The Vampire Diaries_ plays with this a great deal—on a few occasions, ruthless vampires framed more peaceful ones for their crimes and let the town's indiscriminate Council kill them. Of particular notice is Bill Forbes, who actually tortured his own daughter in an attempt to teach her not to be a vampire. More recently, the repeated deaths of Alaric Saltzman allowed the ancient witch Esther to turn him into one of these, to the extent that he brutally murdered other Council members for their failure to kill every vampire.
    -   Used towards the end of Season 1 with the Founders Council and in particular with "Uncle John"'s arrival in town—mainly as he was such an unsympathetic jerkass. May be a Broken Aesop as some, if not most, of the vampires really are amoral killers that need to be put down, and even the 'good' ones can go off the rails on occasions. Compare with other vampire shows where this trope is taken even further.
        -   Mind you, part of the problem with Uncle John is that he seems prepared to team up with some of the nastiest vampires out there to kill off friendlier ones... and is prepared to risk humans for a chance to kill vampires.
-   Mocked in _What We Do in the Shadows (2019)_ when Nadja and Laszlo try to play this card for sympathy, claiming they were forced to flee Europe because of ethnic persecution on account of their vampirism; Europeans did not like the color of their skin, or the fact that they are inhuman monsters of the night that kill and eat people for sustenance. Probably more the latter, as Laszlo concedes.

-   The Van Helsings (especially Eric) in _Young Dracula_ towards Vlad. While Vlad is doing his best to be a non-evil vampire, Eric Van Helsing believes that the only good vampire is a staked vampire. In his defence, the actions of the other vampires in the series indicate that the Slayers have probably never encountered a non-evil vampire. Only a handful are portrayed as sharing Vlad's friendly nature.

    Music 

-   This trope is Played for Laughs in the Starbomb song "Crasher-Vania" Dracula and his monster friends are just trying to have a party, when Simon Belmont shows up and starts slaughtering them. Turns out he was just upset that Drac didn't invite him.

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Deadlands_ has this in spades. There are plenty of nasty bugaboos running around in the Weird West. Most of them are pure unadulterated evil, but some just want to get on with their lives, and some have volunteered or been strongarmed into becoming Men In Black or monster-hunters. You can even play an undead MIB if you want to.
-   _Dungeons & Dragons_. Despite supplements that directly oppose this, many gamers assume that Evil alignment = okay to kill, with or without another reason.
    -   Some supplements that oppose the idea of killing evil do so by assigning the Evil alignment (in terms of a statistics block) to characters who are in no way evil in thought or deed. So they don't really oppose the idea that evil = okay to kill so much as they dispense with any meaning behind the terms "good" and "evil" beyond how they affect spell mechanics.
    -   In older versions of D&D, "Lawful" implied good and "Chaotic" implied evil. "Old School" D&D derivative _Lamentations of the Flame Princess_ uses Lawful to mean "assigned a destiny by higher powers" and Chaotic to mean "aware of incomprehensibly powerful cosmic forces that could engulf our world any day now". There's no moral code or philosophy attached to either alignment; spells that detect "good" or "evil" merely detect entanglement with these powers/forces, although characters may not see it that way. Notably, all Clerics are Lawful and all Magic-Users (and Elves, who use MU spells) are Chaotic.
    -   A slightly less common, but still all too regular, occurrence is for players to forget that there aren't actually all that many races that are _all_ Evil. Killing evil without other provocation may be borderline, but killing someone without provocation because you wrongly assume that they are evil...
    -   _Eberron_: The setting comes flat out and says that there are no Always Chaotic Evil races (well, _maybe_ the daelkyr). An orc or goblin is about as likely to be a respectable merchant as a bloodthirsty savage, and the elves are xenophobic semi-necromancers (which, again, doesn't _automatically_ mean "evil"). Fantastic Racism is still a thing, of course, but it's no longer a justified trope. Dragons are also no longer Color-Coded for Your Convenience - the usual chromatic and metallic-colored subspecies of dragon still exist but don't determine their alignment.
    -   Fifth edition introduces the "Oath of Redemption" Paladin, who strives to pull a Heel–Face Turn in their foes as opposed to killing them.
-   _Pathfinder_ also features this in one of the supplementals with the "Redeemer" Paladin, a Half-Orc exclusive subset where the player takes a Society Is to Blame standpoint for most "monstrous" creatures. All bets are off with the _really_ Always Chaotic Evil races (Undead, Evil Outsiders, and evil-aligned Dragons), though.
    -   Of course, even in the case of beings who are literally Made of Evil, you will very, _very_ rarely come upon the occasional outlier. In the transition from First Edition to Second Edition, for example, the demon lord Nocticula ascends into a goddess of artists and outcasts. While she is no longer a being of the Abyss, the very fact that such a powerful demon even has the possibility of changing their nature implies that such things aren't set in stone.
-   Rudolph van Richten, _Ravenloft_'s greatest monster-hunting expert, could have gone down this path but chose not to let hatred rule his life. His books on ghosts, werebeasts, witches, and Vistani address the possibility that a "monster" may be inoffensive and/or unwilling; other _Ravenloft_ monsters are so irredeemably evil and destructive that the hate crimes are justified in their case.
-   Treated oddly by _Unknown Armies_, especially with the Order of St. Cecil. They're religious fanatics who kidnap, brainwash, or kill anything that smells of Demonic Possession. That includes helping your group take down really nasty monsters, frying creeps fresh out of a Religious Horror flick, or kidnapping and stealing the magic from the cute bibliomancer one of the players was hitting on earlier. On the other hand, they are interested in justice and saving living things. Sometimes, the 'cured' adepts are happy about it, knew they were mad, and are better off afterwards.
-   The Imperial Inquisition in _Warhammer 40,000_ occasionally has this trope called in. The Inquisition's usual response is to execute everyone involved and resume the hunt. Given the universe they live in and the dangers they typically deal with, this is usually the correct response.
    -   It is not as much as being a correct response, but the sheer cost of a possible mistake. Missing a single Chaos worshiper or a Genestealer hybrid can cause entire planets or even star systems to be overrun. When the safety of billions depends on your decision, you are not allowed to take any chances.
    -   It's also a question of sheer scale; there are far more planets in the Imperium than there are Inquisitors, it's often easier and cheaper to depopulate and resettle an area than to face whatever might be getting established there, and the local authorities usually don't have the clearance to know that the things the Inquisition fights are even possible. The Imperium prides itself on counting the lives of planets, not men, and frankly, they can't even keep track of that since they're conquered and lost so frequently.
-   Witch hunters in _Witch Girls Adventures_ range from comparatively decent sorts who try to target witches that are actually a problem for people and are willing to let children off with a warning, to the Malleus Maleficarum, who take Van Helsing Hate Crimes into Knight Templar territory, being perfectly willing to kill (relatively) harmless witches and children, and whose ultimate goal is the complete genocide of witches. The problem is that, due to abysmal setting-building, witches come off as so innately monstrous that the Maleficarum's policy of killing them all seems like the only sane reaction, given that witches are portrayed as universally selfish monsters who are outright encouraged to mutilate and kill people as they see fit for the pettiest of reasons.
-   _The World of Darkness_ games in general are big fans of this.
    -   _Hunter: The Reckoning_ and its spiritual sequel _Hunter: The Vigil_ explore these themes, as they're part of a larger cosmology where the monsters can very well be either good or evil.
        -   In _Reckoning_, viewpoints range from "Kill 'em all" (Avenger) to "Kill 'em when they threaten humanity" (Defender) to "Study them, and use that to your advantage" (Visionary) to "Some of them can be cured" (Redeemer) to "They can be good people, too" (Innocent). _Then_ there are the Waywards, who are so dialed into the wavelength of the Messengers that they will kill any supernatural they encounter, as well as anyone in the vicinity of said supernatural if need be. "Collateral damage" is for other people.
        -   In _Vigil_, the Compacts and Conspiracies range from new media visionaries who wish to study and expose the paranormal, to fundamentalist Christians who want to "redeem" monsters, to Church Militants who view monsters as demons, to debauched aristocrats who kill monsters because it's _fun_. Then again, it says a lot that hunter society has a term for cells that work with monsters toward a greater goal. That term is "cancer cell."
    -   Even outside of direct hunter-monster interactions, werewolves in _Werewolf: The Apocalypse_ are strongly encouraged by their elders to destroy anything associated with the Wyrm and are quite capable of dusting vampires, even though not all vampires in the setting are reliably evil; this antagonism does not appear in the spiritual sequel _Werewolf: The Forsaken_, where werewolves are at worse indifferent to vampires.
    -   The Technocracy in _Mage: The Ascension_ were initially played as Hunter of Monsters gone Knight Templar, but Character Development in later editions revealed that they're not so reliably bad.
    -   The Fetch of _Changeling: The Lost_ are fae-made duplicates that stand in for the originals while they're in Arcadia. Most Changelings react poorly to the thought of a Gentry clone living with their families and/or doing things in their name that they don't approve of — often murderously so. However, the Fetch usually _had no idea they weren't the original_ until some monster wearing their face shows up and had no actual say in their own creation, and most of them aren't terrible people, just slightly _off._ Some of them might even have been more moral or noble than the originals, having lost some fundamental character flaw.
    -   This defines Heroes in _Beast: The Primordial_. Both Beasts and Heroes are drawn into a higher narrative, where the Beast represents the fear of the darkness and the Hero represents the light and the wisdom drawn from mankind's encounter with said Beast. The problem is, the narrative's shifted, so now, Heroes tend to see little difference between Beasts who show restraint in their teachings and Beasts who just slaughter to feed their strange hungers - there are only monsters, and they all must die to keep humanity safe. Oddly enough, Heroes are often _totally fine_ with getting along with other supernaturals - it's only the Beasts that draw their ire.
    -   _Princess: The Hopeful_:
        -   The Queen of Storms and her followers, a faction of Twilight Princesses who are forced to follow this trope by doctrine. Their ideal is that the Darkness must be destroyed no matter what, meaning they will just as easily kill Always Chaotic Evil Darkspawns and Mnemosyne who actively try to harm people as they will kill people slightly corrupted by it against their will and who could still be saved. Showing mercy to anything tainted or consumed by Darkness will cause them to lose access to part of their power, which they can then only restore by hurting themselves to near the point of unconsciousness.
        -   Hunters have a tendency to assume that Princesses are just a weird variant of witches and attack on sight. Even if the Hunters do understand the truth, they don't necessarily change their policies. Task Force Valkyrie consider the Princesses illegal magical vigilantes and invading agents of foreign powers.
-   Likely to pop up in _Exalted_ (another fine White Wolf product).
    -   Most player characters, larger-than-life heroic badasses by default, are bound to have to deal with the fact that a great many people consider them demonic "Anathema" out only to tempt them into straying from the "one true faith" (the Immaculate Faith)...and that there are quite a few powerful individuals and factions around who'd just as soon see them safely dead once they learn of their existence. All this while trying to save the world from all sorts of _genuine_ threats...
    -   This can also happen to Abyssal and Infernal Exalted, which are usually the evil champions of said genuine threats. Not _all_ of them are bad, however—it's possible to play either type as a hero or anti-hero. But other Exalted, even outside the Immaculate catechism, may well decide to fight them as part of the general struggle against the Deathlords, Neverborn, and Yozi. It doesn't help that Abyssals are largely Walking Wastelands whether they like it or not, and the Infernal Green Sun Princes are all slowly turning into Eldritch Abominations.

    Theatre 

-   In the second play in Tsukipro's _SQS_ series, the villain, essentially a curse turned human, is going around massacring villages of humans for entertainment. In response to this, the humans blame all Yōkai, including the main characters. They escape for a time and defeat the villain, but in the end, Shiki, Shuten Douji, lets the angry mob kill him to generate the magic needed to send Tsubasa and Eichi back to the human world. So they return, and the last thing the audience sees of the other world is Shiki standing at the humans rush onto him.

    Video Games 

-   In _Azure Striker Gunvolt Series_:
    -   Main series games: Deuteragonist Copen goes on a crusade against Adepts, believing that _all_ Adepts are monsters who exist only to destroy the world. While some side stories do show that Adepts indeed have destroyed much of the world, Copen lives in the same world as the protagonist Gunvolt, an Adept who only wants to protect his family and friends, and yet Copen sees Gunvolt as no better than a monster to be culled. The fact that Copen's own sister turns out to be an Adept herself shatters him; while this doesn't stop him from continuing his anti-Adept campaign, he cuts ties with her so that she doesn't learn what a monster he has become.
    -   _Luminous Avenger iX_ Duology: Copen still kills Adept bosses, but mostly because said bosses are saddled with Uriah Gambit (such as the first boss who is a death-row inmate who's promised a reduced sentence if he kills Copen), or genuine villains (such as Crimm, a Mad Bomber), and he's a lot less vindictive against said Adepts as well. Turns out this is an Alternate Timeline where he has been fighting for a century against Asimov's tyranny where Adepts are enslaved to become human hunters, in turn tempering Copen to become more compassionate with Adepts than he is in the mainline games.
-   In both _Baldur's Gate_ games, the protagonist has to (if he so chooses) save Viconia, the drow elf — once from a Knight Templar and once from being burned at the stake. Viconia is technically not a very nice person, but it's clear people will attack her when she's just minding her own business.
-   In _Bloodstained: Ritual of the Night_, Zangetsu hates demons, seeks to eradicate them from the earth, and is prejudiced against anyone who has anything to do with them, such as Alchemists and Shardbinders. He attacks Miriam and is defeated _twice_ before he fully trusts her.
-   In _Castlevania: Judgment_, Sypha Belnades (herself a witch) spends her time hunting vampires, werewolves, and those who wield Dracula's power. Unfortunately, her targets turn out to be Alucard, Cornell, and Shanoa, all of whom oppose Dracula just as much as she does. The game tried to justify it by having Sypha come from the timeline before _Castlevania III: Dracula's Curse_ began, thus having not yet met or allied with Alucard.
-   Donovan Baine from _Darkstalkers_ is a monster killer. In the opening to _Night Warriors_, he is shown targeting, in addition to definite bad apples like Huitzil and Lord Raptor, Felicia. Felicia is a perfectly nice, kind (almost innocent) Cat Girl who is a Friend to All Children. Yet Donovan still wants to kill her.
    -   More explicitly an element of Bulleta/B.B. Hood's character. She kills monsters simply because she's greedy and sadistic, gleefully targeting even harmless fellow cast members for death. Her ending even involves her preparing to murder a pair of innocent wolf demons who are already terrified of her from the monster news reports of her indiscriminate slaughter.
    -   The UDON comic adaptation depicts Cat Girls (like Felicia) as an offshoot of humanity often lumped in with more hell-raising types of monster. Anyway, an example as literal as they come is shown—a vandal being dragged into a police car, bragging about what he did to the shelter of a bunch of cat women.
-   Vanda Hellsing from _Dead Hungry Diner_. Initially protecting the town of Ravenwood from zombies by fighting them, when the main characters Gabriel and Gabriella find a peaceful alternative, she's disgusted and starts trying to kill their monstrous customers.
-   Initially in _Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening_, Lady was introduced as a demon hunter who believed all demons are evil. Dante helps convince her that not all demons are evil, and that not all humans are good. She later gets over it and accepted his notion, best evidenced by her own narration at the epilogue:
    
    **Lady:** But now I realize, there are human as evil as any devil, as well as calm and compassion demons in this universe. At least I've found one so-called devil who's able to shed tears for those he cares about. That's enough for me to believe in him.
    
-   In _Divinity II: Ego Draconis_, the Dragon Slayers have been systematically exterminating all the dragons and Dragon Knights because a Dragon Knight betrayed and murdered The Divine One during a confrontation with Damian, the Damned One long ago. Not only are the dragons mostly innocent of this (the murderer was corrupted and controlled by Damian at the time and the Divine One is still alive since the murder was fake and he is just imprisoned in another dimension), but they have been hard at work preventing Damian from destroying the world ever since then, a task not made easier by having an organization dedicated specifically to their personal annihilation.
-   _Eastern Exorcist_ has a rather downplayed example with Lu Yun-chuan, the titular exorcist who does not exactly enjoy his work in killing demons all that much, seeing it more of an obligation to his duty. He does show some remorse when slaying demons with tragic backstories or doesn't deserve their fates, as seen with Shura (who used to be an orphan child who starved to death) and Chu the water spirit (the undead soul of a raped woman). On the other hand, the character Tang Ming is a straighter example who murders a Tragic Monster called the Demon Canine, despite being aware of it's backstory. Because "it's his job".
-   _The Elder Scrolls_
    -   Averted in general throughout the series for most transforming supernatural creatures, including vampires and werewolves. In most cases, these creatures avert This Was His True Form by staying in whatever form they were killed in.
    -   _Skyrim_:
        -   The Silver Hand is a group dedicated to hunting werewolves. This seems like a fairly noble goal, however, they don't make any distinction between the werewolves who are actually a threat and those who just want to live (such as the inner circle of the Companions). If that weren't enough, a tour of some of their bases indicates that, when they have a chance, they'll capture a werewolf alive, torture it to death, dismember the corpse, and study it in order to gain every advantage they can against the enemy. Of course they are also hostile to the Player Character even if they aren't a werewolf, making them little better than a group of bandits who _happens_ to focus on werewolves. You can also find dead Khajiit in some of their prison cells. While it's possible the Khajiit were werewolves (as mentioned above, _Elder Scrolls_' were-creatures remain in their current form when killed), it is also possible the Silver Hand simply doesn't see a difference (two-legs and fur) and/or are just extreme Fantastic Racists.
        -   The Vigil of Stendarr is an organization formed in the wake of the Oblivion Crisis, devoted to Stendarr, the Divine of Mercy and Justice. They are dedicated to wiping out any supernatural threats to Nirn, including vampires, werewolves, lesser Daedra, worshipers of Daedra, etc. However, they make no distinction between friendly/non-malevolent individuals of these types and the ones who are actual threats. They are even known to accost Daedra worshipers when found, demanding that they hand over any Daedric artifacts they may possess, even if the artifact in question comes from one of the more benevolent Daedric Princes (though it is worth remembering that ALL Daedric Princes operate on Blue-and-Orange Morality. There aren't any _truly_ benevolent Daedric Princes per se, just Daedric Princes who happen to align with the motives of mortals).
            
            _"Stendarr's mercy be upon you, for the vigil has none to spare."_
            
        -   After a certain point in the main quest, the Blades will refuse to associate with you unless you kill Paarthurnax, even though he plays a crucial role in Alduin's defeat and is the mentor to the Greybeards. Admittedly, Paarthurnax himself agrees they are not entirely wrong, since the will to dominate is in his nature as a dragon and it is only through great effort and meditation that he keeps control of himself.
        -   The _Dawnguard_ DLC adds the titular order of Vampire Hunters, which was re-formed by a man whose methods were considered _too extreme by the Vigilants of Stendarr_, so it's not a surprise this comes into play. Isran, said reformer, is absolutely right about vampires being a major threat, potentially of apocalyptic proportions, but it takes a lot for the Dragonborn to convince him not to exterminate Serana, and even then he only agrees because she is more valuable alive than dead. The Dawnguard will also be hostile to a vampire Dragonborn, even if said Dragonborn avoids drinking blood at all, or only feeds on bandits and other villains. Serana herself invokes this on the Dragonborn, reasoning that they technically could kill her just because she is a vampire, but should not do so because there are eviler forces in motion and she is just trying to understand what's going on.
-   Beastmen are persecuted on a regular basis in _Final Fantasy XIV_ since the bad ones are always trying to summon primals to brainwash people and inflate the beastmen's ranks. The Empire wants to wipe out all beastmen completely and at one point, they capture a bunch of non-hostile beastmen to execute them and ignore the protagonist's plea to not harm them since they aren't primal worshippers. Many of the beastmen stories you discover via beastmen quests have beastmen and people trying to get along. It also doesn't help that the "beast" species are typically _driven_ to summon primals due to Imperial oppression, because the alternative is being exterminated. The primals are just a convenient excuse. That, and the Ascians have been explicitly manipulating the Empire to cause as much death and destruction as possible, so that the loss of life will help kick off the next shift between the Astral/Umbral eras - but that's a whole other thing.
-   In _Gems of War_, the quest-giver for Whitehelm is Sapphira, a vampire noblewoman. She says that vampires have traditionally lived in peace with other residents of Whitehelm, and is outraged (and vengeful) that the religious authorities are trying to do away with her.
-   It's practically impossible to kill monsters and not do this in _Mass Effect_. Rachni seem like just your regular monster, wreaking havoc on the research facility on Noveria, but it turns out they're sentient and somewhat intelligent and only attacking because the research that was done on them drove them insane. The Thorian that terrorizes colonists on Feros is a debatable example: yes, it distrusts humanoids after it was double-crossed by Saren, but it's quite clear that before then it only had a use for humanoids as slaves or fertilizer. And even the geth get enough sympathy in the sequel that just shooting them on sight like we'd been accustomed to isn't as justified as we thought.
    -   The second and third games make it clear that the geth have been on the receiving end of this from the quarians for over three hundred years. Legion reveals that despite desperately wanting to make peace with their Creators, they cannot understand why whenever they try to stop fighting, the quarians respond by _immediately_ opening fire, forcing the geth to once again defend themselves.
        
        **Legion**: Creators initiated hostilities. We fought only to defend ourselves.  
        **Zaal'Korris**: You're saying your people would be open to the idea of peace?  
        **Legion**: Not without additional data that suggests co-existence is possible or desirable for the Creators. When the Creators have believed they had an advantage over the geth, they have attacked 100% of the time.
        
-   _Master of the Wind_ plays around with Fantastic Racism a lot, and while vampires generally _are_ Always Chaotic Evil, the undead are not. So when bad guys decide to remove undead hero Stoic when he becomes an inconvenience, they just tell the Knight Templar priestess/mage Gabriella Robin where he'll be and wait for her to do their job for them.
-   Shades of this appear in later _Mega Man X_ games; the Maverick Hunters dutifully destroy any Reploid that goes "Maverick", according to their standards... which would be fine, if those standards were limited to those Reploids actively infected with The Virus or deliberately causing grievous harm to humanity and/or Reploidkind. Unfortunately, it seems to encompass _any_ form of resistance against the natural order of things, including otherwise non-hostile acts like exiling themselves to their own space colony (_Mega Man X4_) or merely having traits that could potentially cause problems with controlling them (_Mega Man X6_). In fact, it's revealed in _Mega Man X5_ that the Maverick Hunter commander in charge during _X4_ retired in disgrace for _mis_applying the label of "Maverick" on Repliforce, and thus causing the deaths of hundreds of thousands of innocent Reploids.
    -   The Repliforce incident was something of a Broken Aesop with regard to this. Repliforce, standing accused of destroying a city, not only refuses to come in for questioning to help clear their names but also spouts some nonsensical self-entitled military philosophy as justification (Colonel himself acts like being asked to disarm before coming in for questioning is a bigger disgrace than the city-destroying accusations), instead of raising more legitimate concerns like fear of being scapegoated. Adding to their actions during the course of the game (launching a coup, occupying several cities, Storm Owl terrorizing the skies in a space fortress, and Jet Stingray destroying a city... the last one being exactly what they were framed for and causing them to be declared Maverick in the first place, not to mention Magma Dragoon also betraying the Maverick Hunters solely to fight X or Zero), painting Repliforce as unfortunate victims of an unfair government just seems like whitewashing.
    -   An often overlooked but crucial detail is that X and Zero (and Axl) give them a choice. They always come asking for cooperation or surrender and are refused each time, with even those not driven insane by a virus acting just as unhinged in their zeal to essentially murder police officers as those who _are_ infected. Colonel refused every offer to stop the coup and surrender, as did all the rest of the Repliforce soldiers, and the only Reploid in _X5_ who didn't want to waste time fighting was Squid Adler, who unfortunately succumbed to the Sigma Virus immediately after agreeing to help them. One of the saddest cases was Rainy Turtloid, created by Gate who was given extremely durable armor for navigating through dangerous areas. He was feared for what he could do _if_ he turned evil and Gate was punished for opposing the decision to weaken him so he'd be less of a potential threat. In the end, he took his own life so Gate wouldn't suffer further ramifications before being resurrected in _X6_. He said he knew where X or Zero was coming from (Gate now being insane), but he couldn't bring himself to betray the one person who gave him a second chance. For his part, X was shown to be horrified at the thought of fighting him.
-   The Reveal in _NieR_ shows that the shades, aka "Gestalts", that the player has been killing are far from evil monstrosities. They're the true humans while the humans we've seen are "Replicants", shells initially meant for the Gestalts to bond with once the millennium-long plan to save humanity came to fruition. However, Nier, in his tireless quest to save his daughter/sister, has ensured the extinction of humanity. Worst part is that the Gestalts normally have no way of communicating with the Replicants (who were not supposed to be sentient in the first place) and many of the Gestalts have gone insane.
-   The sequel _NieR: Automata_ isn't much better, as the androids fighting for their human masters seek to terminate all Alien creations, especially the Machine faction of less-humanoid robots, regardless of whether or not they've defected. 2B and 9S' mercy only extends to any machine that submits to their annexation; everything else, even machines living out in the woods trying to reclaim old human nobility, is walking scrap. Of course, it turns out that humanity is extinct, the alien conquering party has been assassinated by their own creations, and both sides' rulers are actively manipulating their pawns to create The Singularity, believing that their destiny is to "eventually become humans" while everyone else is a test subject.
-   The Sohaya in _Nioh 2_ are a clan of youkai hunters who kill _any and all_ youkai they encounter, but the main character is a heroic Half-Human Hybrid, the result of a union between a gentle youkai mother and a human man. Later it is shown that your mother was not a one-off Defector from Decadence: not all youkai are evil, and quite a few can live harmoniously with humankind.

-   In _Runescape_, there is a series of quests in which the player helps save pacifist goblins from a group called Humans Against Monsters.
    -   HAM's counterpart in the distant east are the Purists, who attempt to exterminate local true-breeding mutant humans like the sea orphans on the basis that they are becoming monsters. They've already succeeded with the sky orphans; Shanao is the Last of His Kind.
-   _Shadow of the Colossus_ takes this as a primary theme. You have to kill Colossi to advance the story, but it's heavily implied that at least some of them are perfectly peaceful and they don't deserve to die.
-   _The Sims_: Sacrifical’s Extreme Violence mod includes several murders that can only be performed on occult sims. Doing it will cause the sim who performed the action to receive a moodlet that says: “(sim) put that occult back where they belong - the grave!”
-   In most _Star Wars_ media the Sith are Always Chaotic Evil. However, _Star Wars: The Old Republic_ allows one to play a Sith who adheres to the light side of the Force instead of the dark side, and a sidequest on Dromund Kaas indicates they're far from the first to do so. A light-side Sith Warrior or Inquisitor has a number of interactions with Jedi who turn Knight Templar, unwilling to believe that a Sith could possibly _not_ have world domination and mass murder constantly on their mind.
-   Hilariously, the Bayonetta DLC trailer for _Super Smash Bros._ has Bayonetta attack Pit and Dark Pit on sight, as though they were like the far more unsympathetic angels of her own game.
-   A low-level version of this is kind of a running theme in _Touhou Project_. Playable characters (particularly Reimu) tend to attack youkai just for being youkai (and the majority are reasonably decent people). It's even pretty much the entire reason that the 12th game happened (except for Marisa, who just thought it would be interesting). On the other hand, combat is non-lethal, and some oddball metaphysics makes conflict between humans and youkai necessary, so...
-   In _The Witcher_, there are High Vampires running a high-end brothel who drink the blood of customers without turning them and a Batmanesque crime-fighting werewolf. Both present conflicts for Geralt, a Witcher, whose sole purpose is to destroy monsters.
    -   A DLC quest in the third game, "Skellige's Most Wanted", can be resolved peacefully by Geralt's Defiance of this trope. A werewolf, a troll, a godling, and the doppler who issued the quest will ambush Geralt to try to murder him, and Geralt can talk them down by recalling all the times he spared or helped monsters in other quests. Though the werewolf will still attack.
-   _World of Warcraft_:
    -   The Forsaken complain about the Alliance not making much of a distinction between them and the Scourge, an attitude that drove them to join the Horde. This may be excused by the fact that most of the Forsaken not only Kick the Dog but also get a good laugh out of it, but there are also examples of Forsaken who are upstanding citizens.
    -   The Worgen of Gilneas have a bit of this as well. Most Worgen are beasts, though often cunning ones, while the Gilneans have found a way to retain a human mind. The people of the town of Darkshire, however, still see the Worgen on a whole as monsters to be exterminated, so the Gilnean Worgen who maintain their non-human forms have set up their base some ways away from the actual town and those within it maintain a human form around the locals.
    -   The Scarlet Crusade, a band of zealots who are determined to wipe out all undead. However, their zealotry is so extreme that any living being not of their order is considered to be a potential carrier of the plague and must be eliminated to halt the Scourge's growth.

    Visual Novels 

-   In _Tsukihime_, Arcueid accuses the Church of this, saying that the simple fact that she's a vampire is considered enough to warrant her death in their eyes, regardless of anything else. For their part, the one agent of the Church met in the game acknowledges that Arcueid is not (currently) evil and doesn't even drink blood, but considers her enough of a _potential_ threat that she feels justified in trying to kill her anyway. Then again, Arcueid is something of an anomaly in being a human-friendly vampire; pretty much every other vampire mentioned is evil, or at least uncaring about human life. In fact, most of the reason the Church doesn't pick fights with Arcueid more often is that they know how powerful she is, and are aware that only the most elite of their elite agents would even have a prayer of surviving against her.

    Webcomics 

-   _Adapting to Night_ has the Dawn Crusaders, with whom Derpy's twin brother Sky Hooves works because he still shares their beliefs. Derpy got over herself as she warmed up to Dinky's future father, which got him killed when Sky found out, and in the Present Day, got Dinky kidnapped by Sky when he finally came out of hiding.
-   _And Shine Heaven Now_ brings this up a lot, especially when it comes to the difference between Hellsing and their Catholic counterparts Iscariot. They do the same things (on occasion) but for very different reasons.
-   The hunters in _Blonde Sunrise_ will hunt and kill monsters regardless of their actual threat to humans.
-   In _Bram & Vlad_, it's Bram - Van Helsing's descendant, ironically - that points out to the other vampire hunters that they should find more peaceful ways of solving their problems with the vampires in this arc. The old Vordenburgs were also guilty of pursuing Carmilla's family relentlessly because she put their ancestor in the friendzone.
-   In _Dan and Mab's Furry Adventures_, "Creatures" (anything is more innately powerful than the "normal" anthropomorphic Beings—demons, dragons, 'cubi, etc) have not only a well-deserved reputation of being Always Chaotic Evil cannibals (in the sense of devouring other sapient beings) but also a culture that encourages it, to the extent that Beings officially sponsor and train adventurers who have a reputation for not always being as discriminating as they could be. While it is true that the exact innocence of the Creatures being killed can be highly debatable, a lot of Creature protestations being based in Moral Myopia and the adventures do have legitimate reasons to go after Creatures in general, there is at least one reported case of a totally innocent 'Cubi being killed just for her race: Mink's mother.
-   _Eerie Cuties_ and its spin-off, _Magick Chicks_, has entire academies of monster-slayers. Bizarrely, while the heads of these schools seem to be on good terms with the principal of Charybdis Heights, no effort appears to have been made to teach young slayers that most monsters nowadays are _not_ ravening, murderous beasts. Granted, when someone like a succubus loses control, things get very dangerous very quickly.
-   In _El Goonish Shive_, Abraham killed beings created by the Dewitchery Diamond regardless of their alignment simply because he took an oath to do so. Although the fact he never questioned this until he encountered Ellen suggests that his previous victims were all genuine threats (or at least, that he found it easier to convince himself they were).
-   _Exterminatus Now_ goes so far as to have a _zombie_ shout "HATE CRIME!" at the heroes after they shoot it. That said, this zombie had just been having a conversation with his buddy about how he'd murdered a few of the living (and yet still portrayed himself as the victim), so this wasn't exactly undeserved...
-   _Goblins: Life Through Their Eyes_ is built on this trope. It takes place in a universe where the traditionally evil races of D&D are \*not\* always chaotic evil, but still have their traditional reputation. Enough fantastic racism is in place that the "good" races are perfectly willing to slaughter them now and cast spells that reveal alignment never. To drive the point home, it introduces members of the "good" races, such as Kore, Dellyn Goblinslayer, and Saral Caine, who are amoral at best and far more vile than any characters from the "evil" races at worst. Kore is a paladin who kills a dwarven child because prolonged contact with "evil" contaminated him, and Dellyn's actions sicken even Min-Max, a brainless fighter who (at the time) had no problem killing monsters.
-   _Hanna Is Not a Boy's Name_ features Abner Van Slyk, a Punch-Clock Villain who doesn't care much about the difference between Adelaide and Conrad.
-   In _Mob Psycho 100_, the titular Mob is an exceptionally powerful young psychic who has been taught not to use his powers on humans, but works part-time as an exorcist and thus has no problem exterminating spirits. Most of those being cartoonishly evil vengeful ghosts hostile to humanity, this initially doesn't seem like a problem... until Mob and his mentor, Reigen, encounter a family of ghosts who just want to spend their unlife in peace. This ends up causing some moral conundrums for both of them.
-   _The Order of the Stick_ deals with this occasionally.
    -   The world mostly operates on the convenient D&D Always Chaotic Evil (and Color-Coded for Your Convenience) rules for creatures, but occasionally, questions are raised, especially in the "Start of Darkness", where we see the Sapphire Guard slaughtering a peaceful goblin village and learn the reason _why_ some fully sentient species are Always Chaotic Evil in the first place (hint: gods are jerks).
    -   In fact, most times Redcloak gets a significant portion of dia/monologue with the heroes, he spends time pointing out these kinds of things.
    -   The rule seems to be that demons and undead (which are literally Made of Evil) are Always Chaotic Evil, but that the other stereotypically evil races (goblins, orks, hobgoblins, lizardmen, etc) can be good or evil, just like humans or dwarves or elves.

-   _Paranormal Mystery Squad_ gets into this a few times. Stephanie in particular sees all Cryptids that way and, despite threats from the PETA (a group that's trying to protect the monsters), kills many of them without remorse. Things get complicated though when her sister Katie is turned into a werewolf during an investigation and their newest member J.C turns out to be a damphyr. Thus she has to start reeling in her prejudice and learning not all monsters are out to hurt humanity and she needs to focus on the ones that _are_ a threat. Oh yeah, and Steph's the "old friend" mentioned in the _Eerie Cuties_ example above.
-   In _Scary Go Round_, the West Yorkshire Anti-Zombie Unit leap into action when they meet Zombie!Shelley (long story), but soon have the error of their ways pointed out to them. Ashamed, they decide to be a "more caring group, rehabilitating offenders in the community," because "Just because someone doesn't have a soul, doesn't mean they don't have a heart."
-   In _Slightly Damned_, most warrior angels attack demons on sight, due to generations of conditioning from the Great War. Notably the seraph Denevol, who tried to kill "Demons and traitors", aka completely inoffensive protagonists Buwaro and Kieri.
-   In _Sluggy Freelance_, Riff has occasionally been cast in this light when it comes to Sam (a vampire) and Aylee (an alien). He cools down on it a little when Torg points out that Riff's own Mad Scientist experiments are just as likely to cause mass destruction and death as any monster. But he ultimately ends up destroying his friendship with Torg and Zoe in his efforts to put Sam down.

    Web Original 

-   _The Federal Vampire & Zombie Agency_: The FVZA was disbanded after a Judge declared that vampires were also American citizens.
-   In the _How to Hero_ setting, monsters in general are non-malicious and generally want to live like the rest of us, so as you can probably imagine, monster hunters, who believe that all monsters are evil, are just one more villain for the superhero to stop.
-   Played for Laughs in _JourneyQuest_ with a support group for reformed members of evil races— which is happened upon by Heroic Comedic Sociopath Glorion, who proceeds to cheerfully announce, "Die, evil races!" and butcher them all.
-   The SCP Foundation is determined to contain every abnormal being they come across, even if they're completely harmless. One of its rival organizations, the Global Occult Coalition, plays this straighter, as they are dedicated to _destroying_ every SCP they can find.
    -   Partly subverted in that "contain" has a flexible meaning based on just how harmless a given SCP is. For SCP-682, "contain" means "keep in vat of concentrated sulfuric acid so as to prevent 682 from murdering humanity"; for the tickle monster that once managed to subdue 682, it just means "keep fed and happy".
    -   Some, like SCP-085 (the 2D woman) and SCP-507 (the Dimensional Shifter), are quite friendly with staff members. 507 even gets (monitored) internet access.
    -   Others (the every-drink-ever machine SCP-294) get put in the break room. Under _heavy_ observation, in case someone orders something like a cup of antimatter (though antimatter itself was tested and found not to be producible).
    -   As a general rule of writing, an SCP has to fit into the Cosmic Horror Story tone of the series in _some_ way, and, as such, anyone who doesn't deserve to be detained (like the aforementioned SCP-507) is generally Blessed with Suck and _very glad_ they stay somewhere with a lot of doctors on hand. The Foundation doesn't hate anomalies—they're just not allowed to go free.
    -   Even the Global Occult Coalition is implied to not be as bad as the Foundation makes them out to be. It's sometimes heavily implied the whole "kill every SCP they come across" is just the Foundation's _opinion_ of them and they have deeper goals and interests. In fact, their policy towards the anomalous may actually be closer to "join us or die", as, unlike the Foundation, the GOC is much more willing to employ anomalous humans and make use of Magitek to fight against anomalies.
-   In the _Whateley Universe_, there's the ongoing conflict between Carmilla and the Reverend Darren Englund and his student posse. So far, he's been behind at least two attempts on her life. (To be fair, Sara is generally depicted as one of the good guys right now, but it's easy to see why even characters rather less fanatic than Englund might worry that there could be a Face–Heel Turn looming in her future—and as she's a budding cosmic entity, that would be decidedly bad news.) Even better, there's a Whateley student named Nightbane. She's an Exemplar blonde and good religious girl whose powers are ideally suited to fighting creatures of the night. She's the bad guy since she's trying very hard to kill Carmilla.
    -   Carmilla's a descendant of Shub-Niggurath on her father's side and of Cthulhu on her mother's side. She is foretold to be the thing that wipes humanity off the face of the earth and replaces us with her spawn. As The Kellith, she has an evil cult that numbers in the thousands. She has Combat Tentacles as well as Naughty Tentacles. Her closest (only?) living relative is a high-level supervillain known as the Necromancer. If there weren't stories told from her point of view, no one would think the Reverend and his monster hunters were in the wrong.
    -   Meanwhile, Humanity First, the Knights of Purity, elements within the MCO, and their sympathizers within the police will commit hate crimes against vulnerable mutants if they think they can get away with it.

    Web Video 

-   _The Spoony Experiment_: This video discusses the debate among several groups in _Dungeons & Dragons_ about whether players can assume evil-aligned races to be expendable, consequence-free. Ultimately, he suggests that the dungeonmaster interferes before the argument gets too heated, or make a rule up front determining whether this assumption is in play.

    Western Animation 

-   The first Big Bad in _American Dragon: Jake Long_ was an organization called the Huntsclan, which was dedicated to destroying all magical creatures, especially dragons. The Dragon (who is not an actual dragon) is a girl named Rose, and Jake is both her main target (in his identity as a dragon) and her love interest.
-   _Ben 10: Ultimate Alien_: under the orders of Old George, the Forever Knights are out to hunt down every alien on Earth, regardless of whether they're good or bad. Understandably, it's a lot harder to find the bad ones, so the good ones get targeted. Argit was the only real bad guy they ever harassed. This lasted for one episode; Ben made it very clear that there would be lethal consequences for persisting, and they took his threat seriously. What's really strange is that Old George's command isn't even internally consistent. He has a very specific beef with an all-powerful alien, one to whom the target aliens were in no way related. Indeed, he is shown to not care that his subordinates have failed, which brings to mind the question of why he directed the resources of his organization to a meaningless task when his stated aim is to prevent the rise of one far worse.
    -   Probably to keep them out of his way, mostly, it's not like he needed their help. So either he's being a somewhat nice guy (to fellow humans at least) and keeping them out of harm's way, or he knows they'd just get in his way, slow him down, and pretty much be problems at best.
-   Doctor Von Goosewing from _Count Duckula_ keeps coming after the eponymous Count, despite the fact that he (the Count) is a vegetarian (actual vegetarian—not just a Vegetarian Vampire). In the Doctor's defense, all of Duckula's previous incarnations were exactly as bad as he believes the current one is, and the only reason the current one is a decent bloke was a mistake in the resurrection ritual.
-   Valerie Gray from _Danny Phantom_, who is fully convinced all ghosts are evil. Her primary target is the not evil half-ghost hero Danny Phantom. For that matter, the series also has also shown Danny isn't the only good ghost around, but that sure won't stop her!
    -   Not to mention Danny's own parents, who are thoroughly convinced that all ghosts are pure evil and need to be vanquished.
-   Mixed with Green Aesop in _Dragons: Riders of Berk_: The Dragon Hunters are the equivalent of furtive hunters, hunting dragons for their skins and other uses, also to fight each other and as slave labor, much to the outrage of the main characters.
-   Happens a lot in _Gargoyles_. The species was almost wiped out by humans. In particular, there are the Hunters (Gillecomgain and the Canmores) and the Quarrymen (a modern hate group spawned from the former). The Hunt began because of Demona, who actually is evil, but neither group bothers to distinguish her from all the perfectly normal, decent gargoyles who just want to be left alone. And the massacres had already driven gargoyles to the brink of extinction long before Demona's lifetime.
-   _Generator Rex_: In the episode "The Hunter", Hunter Cain is an EVO-hating extremist who wants to kill every EVO on the planet. Later on, after a timeskip, Providence itself becomes this, catching and putting Restraining Bolt collars on every EVO, no matter their alignment or intelligence.
-   Hoss Delgado from _The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy_ is a spectral exterminator, hunting down the supernatural. While sometimes his targets are truly evil, sometimes he targets the (mostly) benign Grim Reaper, or other fairly harmless, kind-hearted supernatural beings. He targets anything, really; at one point, he mentions he killed a bunch of lawyers because he thinks they're not human. That said, by the end of the series, Hoss has hooked up with Eris, Goddess of Chaos. It Makes Sense in Context—or rather, it makes _exactly_ as much sense as one would expect it to.
    -   In _Underfist_, he stills seems to have some prejudices against monsters; he doesn't let Jeff or Fred Fredburger come with him to the Underworld, generally hates the idea of being on the same team as a bunch of monsters, and attempts to kill Irwin when he discovers Irwin is a mummy\-vampire. He gets over it by the end, and we find out his fear of monsters comes from a monster (who was actually Bun-Bun) that haunted his closet for years.
        
        **Hoss**: Ivan is a mummy-vampire?! That means you lied to me _twice_ when you said you weren't a monster!
        
-   _The Life and Times of Juniper Lee_ has H.A.M. (Human Against Magic), an organization that hunts monsters regardless of their alignment. They're not exactly fond of humans that help them either, a.k.a Juniper (though she is magically enhanced, so it falls under their range of targets).
-   _Little Dracula_: The Big Bad is a Plant Person vampire hunter called Garlick Man.
-   _My Little Pony 'n Friends_: In "Would-Be Dragonslayer", Alonzo believes all dragons are evil and consequently enters the story while trying to slay the harmless baby dragon Spike, which makes the Ponies angry with him.
-   _The Owl House_: Emperor Belos intends a particularly grand scale example: a witch hunter from the 17th century, he has orchestrated a whole religion with the end goal to use a draining spell to kill all life in the Boiling Isles, seeing such an act as saving humanity from evil. Despite the fact that the various witches and demons run the whole morality spectrum, and the Isles actually were better before he showed up.
-   _The Real Ghostbusters_:
    -   An interesting variation of this trope occurs. While many of the supernatural entities the Ghostbusters came across were as evil and dangerous as one might typically expect and had to be busted in one way or another, sometimes the ghosts, vampires, or other beings were, in fact, the ones who needed the Ghostbusters' help. Whether it was a family of suburban spirits hiring the Ghostbusters to get rid of the malign demons that infested their house, ghosts who were causing trouble for the living but only needed the Ghostbusters' assistance to complete their Unfinished Business to be able to rest in peace, or a clan of vampires that fed on synthetic blood needing help with some overzealous vampire hunters who wanted to kill them even when they weren't a threat, the Ghostbusters could just as easily be helping the supernatural as fighting it.
    -   Played Straight with Van Helden in "Transylvania Homesick Blues", as his family caused the extinction of all vampires except for Count Vostak.
-   _The Simpsons_: One _Treehouse of Horror_ opening sequence is a Dark Parody of _The Munsters_ in which almost all of the Simpsons (standing in for the Munsters) are savagely lynched by the rest of the Springfield population because they are monsters. The only one who survives is Lisa, who is the Token Human of the family a la Marilyn.
-   _Star vs. the Forces of Evil_: This is quite common. The Mewmans have been at the monsters' throats for generations, even though they are mostly harmless. There was once a great war where the Mewmans and monsters where they fought over territory, which the Mewmans won, and ever since, they've been bossing the monsters around for centuries.
-   _Ugly Americans_: One episode direct parallels between Van Helsing's hunting of vampires and Adolf Hitler's hatred of Jews, right down to authoring "Mein Vampf"
-   _Welcome to the Wayne_: The self-proclaimed vampire hunter Wendell Wasserman tries to hunt down a vampire that was really a Nice Guy and mocks other people for sympathizing with him.

___