_"\[The game has\] a sense of timeless nostalgia... there's innocence to it as well, cosmic horror not withstanding."_

So you're watching a kids' show taking place in a Sugar Bowl with cute characters and a jolly, lighthearted tone. Then a villainous character is introduced into the plot. But given how inoffensive the work has been up to this point, surely the villain will be a goofy Harmless Villain?

Except sometimes, these works will have villains who are _legitimately intimidating and frightening_. Maybe they try to destroy all positive emotions, maybe they turn people into twisted shambling abominations, or maybe they're outright plotting genocide.

Point is, they're serious, threatening, and/or creepy villains in normally lighthearted fiction that are so disturbing, so terrifying, that they clash harshly with the tone of the work. Because of this type of villain's ability to alter the mood of the story they're in, this trope overlaps with The Killjoy, Knight of Cerebus (if the character causes a lasting tonal shift in a work or series), or even Complete Monster. If a series has a lot of villains like this, then it's taking a ride on the Cerebus Rollercoaster. Done well, it provides a powerful contrast. Many family-friendly and Slice of Life shows have episodes that choose to take a turn down Nightmare Road by presenting disturbing imagery, creepy characters and dark situations as a figment of some character's imagination or nightmares. This doesn't count, however, as the characters aren't real in that universe either; they merely represent the fears and the anxieties of some individuals.

Said Lighter and Softer cases might also showcase the villain still having _some_ level of whimsy or comedic qualities to tone them down. To still apply as this trope, they retain a relative sense of menace against the rest of the universe. A Laughably Evil Large Ham villain that nonetheless wants to murder the protagonists in cold blood will still stick out within a Slice of Life series with minimal lethal threats.

It's important to note that when the vile villain meets the saccharine world, the Cerebus Syndrome and Mood Dissonance are in full effect during the story of the work. A violation of Genre Consistency. May overlap with Crapsaccharine World, especially when that same villain is the main reason (or one of the main reasons) _why_ the world in question is... well, crapsaccharine. Also compare What Do You Mean, It's for Kids? and What Do You Mean, It's Not for Kids?. A major cause of Sugar Apocalypse. See also Vile Villain, Laughable Lackey, which this often overlaps with. See also Evil Cannot Stand Cuteness.

___

## Examples subpages:

-   Films — Animated
-   Video Games
-   Western Animation

## Other examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _The 100 Girlfriends Who Really, Really, Really, Really, Really Love You_ is a light-hearted and comedic romcom that's as ridiculous as its name implies. The story itself has No Antagonist, and the majority of troublesome characters tend to be on an Opposing Sports Team or are motivated by love for their own loved ones. Despite this, there is one exception to this so far: the pharmaceutical spy in Chapter 74. He poisons Kusuri's parents in order to coerce her into working for him, clearly intending to use her drugs for unsavory purposes. He's played completely seriously by the narrative and is willing to shoot Rentarou to stop him from interfering.
-   After the first few chapters, _Booty Royale: Never Go Down Without a Fight!_ settles into being an ecchi work comedy about the adult entertainment industry, once main character Misora's agency stops trying to get her to move from gravure to hardcore porn anyway. But then there's Dr. Ikezaki Gensuke, a surgeon who turns out to be a sexual sadist: he's introduced having savagely beaten Rea after hiring her to sleep with him on the side, then starts trying to take a bloody revenge on Misora after she breaks his hand for it. First he hires a yakuza assassin to kill her with a sword, then after that fails he kidnaps her and sets her up to play the starring role in a snuff film.
-   _Castle in the Sky_ has a really notable case with Colonel Muska, especially for a Hayao Miyazaki film. For most of the film, the antagonists were Dola and her fairly comical crew, and even later on, General Muro was a bit of a blowhard. Colonel Muska has no comical traits, being a Faux Affably Evil government agent treated very seriously by the protagonists. What makes him truly qualify as the evilest and most despicable Hayao Miyazaki antagonist was massacring an entire army that helped him conquer Laputa, laughing maniacally as he watches them die.
-   _Date A Live_ is generally a lighthearted romantic comedy, but all that changes with the introduction of Sir Isaac Ray Peram Westcott, who is quite possibly one of the most ruthless villains in light novel history.
-   _Digimon_:
    -   _Digimon Adventure_ starts off fairly lighthearted, then we meet Devimon, a cunning, devil-like monster with the power to brainwash friendly and peaceful Digimon into rampaging, savaging berserkers.
        -   Myotismon is even worse. A sinister, Vampiric Digimon with a sadistic streak a mile wide. Myotismon treats his underlings awfully, having taken Gatomon in when she was young and abused her until she was a killing machine. When his henchmen fail him, he eagerly destroys them. When two harmless minions couldn't bring themselves to harm children, Myotismon declared them useless and killed them immediately. When he invaded Tokyo, he proceeded to destroy much of it and held a number of children captive to identify the final child connected with Gatomon. Not only that, but he figured that if it took too much time, he'd simply kill them all. Myotismon also proceeded to attack multiple young women and drain their blood. Any minions he hadn't already killed were cannibalized to fuel his Mega transformation. Myotismon's spirit survived to return as the final villain of the next season as MaloMyotismon. Using Oikawa's sadness and despair to make him a pawn, he proceeded to consume him from within and upon manifesting anew, Myotismon repaid his perfectly loyal ally Arukenimon by sadistically torturing her to death and brutally killing Mummymon when he tried to avenge her.
        -   Machinedramon is a cold-hearted, brutal, gigantic Killer Robot who speaks, though rarely, with a growling, hateful, metallic voice and mostly acts like a lifeless machine, unless he's on a murder rampage. He also enslaves and kills a bunch of Numemon, and just like Vamdemon and Puppetmon, he's not someone you want to work for.
        -   Puppetmon has shades of this despite being Laughably Evil. He's a dark version of Pinocchio who thinks he can make friends by killing and enslaving everyone around him, and uses a revolver to "play" a cruel version of hide-and-seek with T.K. and kills his minions, Mushroomon and Blossomon, with it because he thought they lied. Some countries edited the scenes with Puppetmon killing Mushroomon and Blossomon and holding the gun during the TV run of the series. It's a living puppet pointing a gun at an eight-year-old child!
        -   And then there's Piedmon, a psychopathic, sadistic, childish Monster Clown who enjoys toying with his opponents and sadistically inflicts pain and fear upon them before finishing them off, which culminates in him transforming the kids and their Digimon into keychains one by one in a series of sequences that seem to come straight out of a horror movie. It's no wonder his voice in the English dub was intended as an impression of Tim Curry in It (1990).
    -   _Digimon Xros Wars: The Young Hunters Who Leapt Through Time_ is Lighter and Softer than the previous two seasons, so when Quartzmon, an Eldritch Abomination Digimon shows up and takes over the entire world, absorbs every human and Digimon there into its body (in a clearly And I Must Scream state) and uses them as hostages against Tagiru, it sticks out.
    -   _Digimon Ghost Game_ has a modern urban setting that wouldn't look too odd for a Slice of Life anime (and a sizable portion of most episodes are spent on Slice of Life moments), heavily contrasting the war stories common within the franchise. But many hostile Digimon, even the redeemable ones before they reform, attempt kidnapping, mass murder or other grisly attacks with dozens to hundreds of victims on average (one even kills 1,000 Digimon before being killed himself), and pretty much any Digimon can be the culprit of the week, including things like _Myotismon or Piedmon_ and worse Digimon can show up. Despite ostensibly a kid-friendly horror anime, the Digimon incidents can be genuinely terrifying even for adult audiences.
-   _Dragon Ball_:
    -   Most villains were dealt with comically, and only a few were shown to pose a serious threat to Goku and his friends. Then came Tao Pai Pai, a Psycho for Hire who cares only about profit and ruthlessly and remorselessly wipes out anyone who gets in his way with his bare hands. After he murders Upa's father and defeats Goku in battle, he laughs at Upa and tells him that he's lucky that he's still alive, meaning that he has absolutely no problem killing children. When he returns to Karin's Tower to look for the one Dragon Ball he neglected to find, he grabs Upa and throws him against the tower (fortunately, he was saved by Goku). One time he forced a tailor to overwork on making an outfit for him in about three days... which he rewarded by killing him. After his defeat, he was rebuilt into an Ax-Crazy cyborg who wanted nothing more than the deaths of both Goku and Tenshinhan.
    -   King Piccolo and his children. King Piccolo's arrival marked the series's complete shift to a much more serious tone, which carried over into the Sequel Series _Dragon Ball Z_.
-   _Fruits Basket_ is an adorable series about a cute high school girl who befriends a lot of pretty boys and the hi-jinks that ensue. Then we are introduced to Akito, who we learn has been committing various forms of physical and psychological abuse on various family members, and has no problem with doing the same to any "outsiders" who look like they're butting in. Later, Akito actually becomes _sympathetic_ when her mother, Ren, is revealed to be even _worse_.
-   Although it's about World War II, _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ manages to be pretty goofy while focusing on the general incompetence of the nations. While there is fighting, it's portrayed as comical punches and cartoonish damage. In the movie _Paint it, White!_, we are introduced to invading aliens called the Pictonians. The Pictonians quickly conquer nearly all of Earth, transform most of humanity into their species, and abduct them as slaves. Everything the nations do to fight them fails, and they very nearly lose at the end, when all of them but Italy are turned into Pictonians. While screaming.
-   _Lady!!_: Jeanne is a unnervingly realistic depiction of an emotionally Abusive Mom. She withholds affection from her six-year-old daughter Sophie, uses her as a therapist that she often takes out her anger on, and sets her up as a pawn against her personal enemies to sway them emotionally. When Sophie asks an innocent question or speaks back to her, Jeanne angrily berates her and accuses her of holding her back. Sophie is constantly reduced to tears whenever she's thinking about her. On top of that, she's a Manipulative Bitch who knows Sophie's biggest fear is being sent back to France, and threatens her with it to keep her in line.
-   _Little Witch Academia (2017)_: Croix Meridies is entirely responsible for the second cour being Darker and Edgier than the first by a long stretch and episode 21 doesn't help matters. She wants Chariot to suffer, all for no reason other than Croix not having the Shiny Rod and seeks to destroy "her last dream" by messing with Akko's quest for the words. She even attempts to make Akko distrust Ursula and later has her machines attack Akko while she's trying to prevent Chariot from helping her, and her reveal provides a Cerebus Retcon to Akko's previously goofy inability to keep up.
-   _Mobile Fighter G Gundam_ is known for its campiness and can also be kinda cheesy at times. The main threat is a vile Eldritch Abomination known as the Dark Gundam (AKA Devil Gundam in Japan) that can take control of people and animals via metallic cell replication that covers the victim's body over time. Not to mention it can mutate its own body into grotesque forms and grabs people with creepy tentacles that sprout out of it. Its master plan is to rid the world of humanity all to save the planet.
-   _Mon Colle Knights_ is cheerful and wacky and the enemies usually are the Terrible Trio. When they're not, there's Reda, with his bloodstained wings and a fondness for driving people to suicide and subjecting things to splooshy transformations. The English Gag Dub toned him down and edited some scenes.
-   _Phantom Thief Pokémon 7_ starts out as a cute story about a Phantom Thief boy and his Lucario. That is until we learn about an especially aggressive Team Galactic. We find out his twin sister who was kidnapped years ago has been brainwashed and is one of the strongest Galactic grunts. As she doesn't remember him she has no issues beating _him_ and his Pokemon to a pulp. She gets better though.
-   _Pokémon: Diamond and Pearl Adventure!_ is about a Wild Child named Hareta, who has more than a few resemblances to Goku, going on a journey. It's all fun and games except for Team Galactic, who is presented just as intimidating as they are in the games and then some. It doesn't help that his best friend Mitsumi is an ex-Galactic member (and a ferociously strong one at that) who is blackmailed into rejoining and gives his Pokemon a No-Holds-Barred Beatdown.
-   _Pokémon Origins_ plays this trope straight with Team Rocket as a whole, in a stark contrast to their general depiction in the anime. Just like the games, they actually kill Pokémon, and they're shown conducting horrible experiments on them, too. Giovanni's reasoning for doing all this? Because a Pokemon-based society is a business, and Pokemon are tools for business.
-   The _Pokémon_ anime has a goofy and incompetent Terrible Trio composed of two delinquents and a talking Meowth as the primary antagonists most of the time, but it still has:
    -   The coldhearted Diabolical Mastermind Giovanni, the non-so-incompetent Rockets Butch and Cassidy, and the psychic Gym Leader with a split personality Sabrina, in the Kanto Saga.
    -   The intimidating Mewtwo in _Pokémon: The First Movie_, who, while eventually redeemed, has a body count, mind-controlled people, and planned to commit total human and trained Pokemon genocide leaving only his clones remaining.
    -   The merciless Pokémon Hunter J, the Omnicidal Maniac Cyrus and his evil organization Team Galactic, and the abusive Jerkass trainer Paul in the Sinnoh Saga.
    -   The Iron Masked Marauder, Grings Kodai, and Alva in the 4th movie, 13th movie, and 19th movie respectively.
    -   In _Black and White_, the usually goofy, incompetent Terrible Trio isn't so goofy and incompetent anymore until the _Episode N_ arc (where they revert back to their old personality), but has Ghetsis, Colress, and Team Plasma to fill in the gaps. Whenever they show up, expect the mood to drop dramatically and the battles to get more intense.
    -   Team Flare in the _XYZ_ arc of the anime are this as well; largely eschewing the campier aspects of their game counterparts in favor of a darker rendition more in line with that of Big Bad Lysandre, who is portrayed accurately. They are even the first villain team in the anime to devastate a major city on screen.
    -   The _Sun and Moon_ series is very much Denser and Wackier than previous seasons... until the likes of Nihilego or Necrozma show up, upon which things get nightmarish, and _fast_.
    -   The Explorers group debut early on in _Pokémon Horizons: The Series_ and are very much a no-nonsense set of antagonists in the vein of Team Galactic, Plasma, and Flare.
    -   The race of Unown, which are a borderline Eldritch Abomination. In the third movie they absorb a person alive and befriend a lonely girl which lets her do quite scary things, like turning the entire city into crystal (and, it was hinted, spread the crystallization over the entire planet), as well as kidnapping and brainwashing the hero's mother into thinking _she's_ her Missing Mom.
    -   _Pokémon: Jirachi: Wish Maker_, otherwise one of the lightest and softest Pokemon movies, has an enormous failed clone of Groudon with Combat Tentacles that absorb any nearby lifeforms into its body to sustain itself.
-   The Big Bads of the _Pretty Cure_ franchise are usually like this. One of them is an entity that existed before everything and wants to plunge everything into nothingness, another is a life-hating Eldritch Abomination that turns every planet he visits into sand dunes, yet another is a monster born out of humanity's collective negative emotions, still another is a jilted ex-lover from the future who wants to stop time to prevent suffering, etc etc... This is a series that is (supposedly) for little girls in elementary school.
    -   _Smile Pretty Cure!_: Joker/Rascal, is The Heavy of the story and The Dragon to Emperor Nogo/Pierrot. Unlike many villains of the franchise, including the others on the same series, Rascal doesn't have any sympathetic backstory or reason for doing what he does, he is simply a totally evil, sadistic, and psychotic being that takes pleasure in inflicting despair in the world. In keeping with the intent behind the series, which is to be simpler than others of the franchise, Rascal is a simple villain, who does things simply because he is just that evil.
-   _Sound of the Sky_ as a whole is a laid-back Military Moe series starring cute girls doing cute things (basically _K-On!_). And then the last two episodes introduce its Big Bad, Colonel Hopkins, a brutal warmongering Colonel Kilgore who _wiped out three entire cities_ in the backstory- with a flashback showing some of the carnage- and wants to spark war between Helvetia and Rome just for his own enjoyment.
-   _Spy X Family_: While the series involves a spy and an assassin as main characters, with their work being depicted plenty seriously, for the most part it's light-hearted and comedic. That said, some of the antagonists are shown to be vile and corrupt monsters that heavily clash against the standard tone:
    -   Donovan is the psychotically paranoid head of what is implied to be an extreme right-wing political faction, an emotionally abusive father to Damian, and has aspirations of controlling other nations to the extent of being a threat to national security.
    -   Keith stands out for being one of the most vicious antagonists in an otherwise light-hearted story. His crimes include strapping explosives to a pack of dogs to be sent after Minister Brand, attempting to kill Anya for eavesdropping on him and his co-conspirators, callously threatening the lives of Ostanian civilians, and nearly killing Twilight with a booby trap.
    -    <Snoops> somehow manages to be the most evil person among a Carnival of Killers that wants to assassinate a mother and her infant son. Snoops planned to kill everybody, including his own cohorts, with the bombs he planted on the cruise ship, intending to frame Westalian terrorists for his own crimes, and expressed a desire for the soon-to-be sinking ship to "serenade" him with the screams of the passengers.
    -   Despite initially playing this trope straight, Billy Squire of the Red Circus ultimately ends up playing with this trope. He's portrayed as both dangerous and scary, particularly since he and his accomplices take a bus full of children hostage. That said, we soon learn that he has _some_ standards, in that the explosive collars he put on Anya and Damian were fake, and he never had any intention of harming any of the children (unlike his accomplices, who have no such issues). In fact, in the climax of his arc, he has some rather comical reactions as Anya talks him down. What really makes him a "playing with tropes" example is the fact that his backstory and current actions also bring to the forefront the most dangerous aspects of Ostania's totalitarian government, revealing just what it's willing to do for the sake of maintaining the illusion of peace.
-   _Sword Art Online_'s second arc features the characters in Alfheim Online, which is full of cute elves who are trying to rescue the princess from an evil villain, until the princess discovers that he has been experimenting on 300 people in real life, he sexually assaults her, tortures Kirito when he comes to save her, and attempts to kill him in the real world with a knife.
-   Despite _Tenchi Muyo! GXP_ being a lighthearted adventure comedy, Tarant Shunk still tries to behave as a real and scary Ruthless Modern Pirate, though it doesn't help him much. Kagato from the original OVA and _Tenchi Universe_ was no slouch himself.
    -   Kain from the first movie (_Tenchi Muyo In Love_) was significantly darker than most other villains of the franchise, being an Omnicidal Maniac Eldritch Abomination Living Shadow whose presence sucked out all of the regular wacky hijinks the franchise is usually known for.
-   _Tomica Hyper Rescue Drive Head Kidou Kyuukyuu Keisatsu_ is a very lighthearted anime aimed at preschoolers, and that just makes The Evil AI seem all the more horrifying. Aside from the fact that its ultimate goal is to Kill All Humans, the way that it turns the humans it assimilates into metal looks particularly gruesome.
-   _The Fantastic Adventures of Unico_ is a lighthearted film about a baby unicorn who wishes to make friends and thrives on The Power of Love. The second half quickly becomes darker once Baron De Ghost is introduced, who gives Unico's friend Katy drugged wine in order to do God knows what to her, and the climax has him turn into a giant demon that attempts to kill the heroes.
    -   The sequel, _Unico in the Island of Magic_, gives us Lord Kuruku, an abused marionette brought to life through The Power of Hate whose presence makes the film much darker and creepier than one would expect, especially since his plan involves turning people into living puppets that are used for building the walls of a castle.

    Comic Books 

-   This can happen by Rogues' Gallery Transplant. Characters like Mephisto, Nightmare and Shuma-Gorath in Marvel are all really dark villains, but they also moved from antagonizing characters like Ghost Rider and Doctor Strange, where they aren't out of place, and are now general threats to the entire Marvel Universe. Which means sometimes they can show up in much lighter series, while retaining all their usual qualities (though Mephisto and Nightmare can ramp up Black Comedy a bit to fit better). Case in point, Mephisto showed up in the abovementioned _Loki: Agent of Asgard_ (how it went could be described as Out-Gambitted with liberal doses of Your Approval Fills Me with Shame and Incredibly Lame Puns), Nightmare was an antagonist in a pretty comedic Fantastic Four story and a one-shot issue of The Unbeatable Squirrel Girl (an all-ages comic), and Shuma-Gorath fought the Mighty Avengers in a straight superhero adventure.
-   _Les Légendaires_ is a seemingly kid-friendly comic book, involving a world where everyone has been turned into children following a magical accident. The characters are typically comical (though they do have moments of badass), and the universe even more. But let's have a look at the main villains:
    -   Darkhell is a homicidal, megalomaniac, cruel Evil Sorcerer (and formerly Sorcerous Overlord) who made insane experiments, was The Dreaded for years in his world and causes a large amount of death each time he shows up. While he was scary already as an adult, being returned to childhood only makes him more disturbing.
    -   Skroa is a bird-like demonic sorcerer that used to be Darkhell's rival and frequently uses the protagonists as pawn for his plans. He's shown slaughtering a group of armed human beings of his own. He once _cut his own arm off_ as a part of his plan.
    -   Anathos is the comic's version of Satan, being an Omnicidal Maniac God of Evil that succeeded in destroying the world a long time ago and almost succeeded a second time. He came back by reincarnating in one of the protagonists and literally crushed the remaining heroes in their first fight, leaving them scarred for life.
    -   Abyss is introduced as a seemingly extremely nice person in his first appearance, only to be revealed later as a Yandere who seems to have a thing for his foster sister, to the point of forcing her to join his side by brainwashing her through Puppeteer Parasite.
-   There is _The Little Mermaid_ comic "Serpent Teen". The Moray are a race similar to merpeople however they were long thought to be a myth, and they thought merpeople were too. The king and princess capture Ariel and force her to be their pet. Aquata, Ariel's oldest sister and the heir to the throne, tries to rescue Ariel but is captured and almost fed to a sea-serpent. In the end Triton has to come and threaten to destroy the kingdom if they don't free his daughters.
-   Just like in the TV show, _My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic (IDW)_ has some surprisingly creepy villains, and lets the villains from the show do things not permitted by the TV rating.
    -   The return of Chrysalis, Queen of the Changelings, has her implied to have brutally killed a cute, loving kitten-like creature, right in front of the Cutie Mark Crusaders, and presents exactly what happens when a country is taken over by Changelings. "Disgusting" doesn't even begin to describe it. Ironically, this same arc also sees Chrysalis used for comedy pretty often (due to her interactions with the aforementioned CMC), while in the show she was played completely straight at all times.
    -   Another arc presents a Mirror Universe, featuring Celestia and Luna as taunting, vengeful antagonists. King Sombra is the one capable of holding his own against them, and despite his best efforts, the Princesses had ravaged and destroyed much of the land already, with this universe's counterpart to Discord being _dead_.
    -   Goldcap, Decepticolt and Zappityhoof from _Friends Forever #25_ are a trio of unicorn ponies who are jealous of Twilight's ascension to Princess and want to overthrow her by making themselves alicorns. To do this, they drug Rainbow Dash and _cut off her wings_ while she's unconscious, intending to use them to brew a wing-growing potion.
    -   Issues 75-78 introduce the draconequus Cosmos, Discord's ex-girlfriend from his days of villainy. Her brand of chaos goes far beyond Discord's antics; the world and buildings mutate in horrible ways in her wake, she's not above torturing or even _killing_ ponies to get her kicks, and she's too powerful for Discord to stop her on his own. Once Discord stops seeing eye-to-eye with her and tries to reign her in, she's more than happy to lay her abuse on _him_ too. As the Spirit of Malice, the intent to do harm, she believes the Spirit of Chaos is a natural match for her, but she's fine cowtowing him by force if he resists her.
    -   The _Generations_ series resurrects the Smooze, a villain from the G1 continuity, into the modern G4 world. It's no longer slime and instead streamer ribbons, but ponies cursed by its touch are far more hateful and violent; Ponyville is practically in ruins by the time the Witches arrive. Worse, It Can Think and is actively planning Equestria's downfall instead of being a mindless monster like before. Once it possesses Violet Shiver, it becomes too powerful for the ponies to stop it, forcing the Witches to intervene.
-   The "Ghoul's Out for Summer" arc of the _Scary Godmother_ comic had two. One is Tinkeree, Scary Godmother’s mentally ill and down-on-her-luck school friend who kidnaps and drugs SG in order to steal her identity. The other is The Master, an insane vampire who uses Laser-Guided Amnesia to enslave, starve, mutilate and kill a bunch of teenage vampires, until Orson and Hannah stop him.
-   There is in the "Untidaled" comic arc one of the darkest villain in any of _SpongeBob SquarePants_ media, The Kraken. To give you an idea he stands out for being by far the most evil and sadistic villain Sponge Bob and company has ever come across, even surpassing Pankton, Dennis, and the Cyclops in terms of complete and utter depravity. Being a Serial Killer who drains the entire ocean and uses Krabby Pattys to lure in his victims in order to devour them, and forcing Mr. Krabs to watch as he holds his daughter Pearl hostage forcing him into compliance.
-   Parodied in Steph Cherrywell's _Widgey Q Butterfluff_, with Lord Meanskull and his Hench-Witches.
-   _Loki: Agent of Asgard_ is a light-hearted series by Marvel standards, yet the Big Bad is Old Loki, a version of the main character from a Bad Future, trying to force young Loki to become him, like it or not. Worth noting that that series gets a Gut Punch thanks to _AXIS_ and then takes a nose first dive into darkness.
-   _Chlorophylle_: While Anthracite has some comedic moments, he is a rather vicious villain for a light-hearted, colorful series involving talking animals. His crimes include frequently murdering his own accomplices once they have outlived their usefulness, introducing the local equivalent of cannibals in Coquefredouille, and eventually becoming a dictator.

    Fan Works 

-   Both versions of _Battle Fantasia Project_, by virtue of being crossovers between series which _abound_ with these. The above-mentioned villains from _Pretty Cure_? They're in the story, and _they're **not** the most evil guys around here_.
-   Vasile, a particularly murderous kind of poltergeist, serves as the Arc Villain for the third story of the Contractually Obligated Chaos series. He takes both his villainy and his political status very seriously, and is targeted by the heroes because he's killed _children_. Unfortunately for him, this is a _Beetlejuice_ fanfic, which means he has to put up with an awful lot of nonsense - both from his surroundings in general and that character in particular.
-   The Big Bad from the crossover story, _The Bridge_. True, one half of said crossover is far from a sugar bowl, but isn't so mature that it's not safe for kids. So what is the villain for a crossover between Kaiju and Equines? A demonic, Reality Warping, Eldritch Abomination who's an Omnicidal Maniac with millions of kills under his belt. Considering it's Bagan, this should be expected.
-   _Citadel of the Heart_:
    -   Darigus; a Physical God Muck Monster whose body is composed of an ink/slime/sludge substance which smells like a rotting corpses, is at least partially acidic, and Darigus barely even making a sound unless he needs to speak, which his regular idle sounds being just an unusual pulsation of his own body as he "feeds" off of the air and poisons whatever is in range with his otherworldly body composition. Darigus is effectively unable to truly be killed when introduced; only be warded off to which even Ultimorian Deity Grandis needed to intervene because otherwise Darigus would've cheated and tried to kill someone flat out; a risk that's always present with Darigus' status as a Hero Killer in his conceptual appearances, due to that being a traditional role associated with Darigus, alongside his Satanic Archetype nature in addition to being the son of an Eldritch Abomination who in the lore of his own universe of origin is Satan himself. To make matters worse, in the description of the picture linked above, he's being discussed as having been actively stalking two girls who have been having nightmarish encounters with Darigus in their own homes, or have had nightmares directly fueled by Darigus' presence if they still slept through him showing up.
    -   Ruki's biological father in the form of an O.C. Stand-in with a _massive_ case of Adaptational Villainy to the point he's a Walking Spoiler. In terms of human villains in the overall continuity, when compared to Roy, Megalodon, or Enric, Roy is a Large Ham, Megalodon is a Funny Foreigner, and Enric is a Comedic Sociopath, all of which are attempts to provide some levity into their characters; all of which Besiege lacks because he's described by those same three characters as a "joyless Sociopath" who engages in Ephebophile Date Rape and normally is a Professional Killer who just wants to fulfill his Blood Lust in killing people, and his lust for his own daughter while leading her into a deliberately designed Clueless Mystery which is meant to manipulate her into being his successor and future bedmate. He's effectively _Digimon Re: Tamers_' answer to the Mysterious Man from _Digimon Adventure tri._.
    -   Greater-Scope Villain Dr. Devoniak also qualifies due to how uncannily Stoic he is when compared to all of the other antagonists, who in some ways fall victim to the Series Fic's nature of being a partial World of Ham; Dr. Devoniak isn't hammy in any way whatsoever, not even when engaging his Arch-Enemy Grandis. Considering he's Nigh-Invulnerable to mostly everything, he exploits The Slow Walk very often as he doesn't fear or gets fazed by anything that crosses his path, and as a near 10 foot tall humanoid he tends to intimidate people simply by standing next to them. He's also more of The Spook than other villains in the fics, considering so little is known about him despite being a Time Abyss who has existed since the original incarnation of the Greater Multiverse, and even other Knight of Cerebus characters in the series _outright fear Dr. Devoniak in particular._ It's a testament to how dark of a villain he is when you also consider he's the only character whom Grandis outright killed on purpose. Did we mention his design resembles a reanimated corpse?
    -   Blackheart, the Omegamon Zwart D that represents Raiga's long-term desire to maintain her Fusion indefinitely. While it is true that Blackheart is depicted as a mindless, genocidal killing machine at her most reasonable, in any other _Digimon_ fic within this Series Fic, Blackheart would normally be nothing out of the ordinary in regards to villains. However, as Blackheart is the resident Knight of Cerebus in _Digimon Re: Adventure_, which is mostly Porn with Plot and Slice of Life at most, Blackheart's existence forms the catalyst to the entire Myth Arc that forms the actual plot part of the aforementioned genre this fic is.
-   _Five Nights at Freddy's_ fanartist Kosperry often reimagines the story in a Don Bluth style, and in true Don Bluth fashion, this trope is in full effect. While the main four (Freddy, Bonnie, Chica and Foxy) are depicted as good guys and Mangle is portrayed as an Ineffectual Sympathetic Villain, the same can't be said about Purple Man and Springtrap, who are portrayed as being every bit as vicious and evil as they are in canon.
-   _Frozen Turtles_ has the seemingly innocent Arendelle facing the threat of a Nigh-Invincible Omnicidal Maniac in the form of the Shredder, with several scenes emphasizing how the royal family can't understand the scale of Shredder's evil.
-   _A Future of Friendship, a History of Hate_ is yet another _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ example. It maintains the Original Flavour of the show very well, but Ruinate is a rather horrifying Eldritch Abomination who intends to turn Equestria into a Crapsack World before destroying it, and even manages to temporarily _destroy Twilight Sparkle's soul_. Also, his heralds, who know perfectly well his final goal and serve him anyway, are willing to do terrible things in his name.
-   _Getting Back on Your Hooves_ is a _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ fanfic that strongly goes for Original Flavour with the original series. The Big Bad, Checker Monarch is based off real life Sociopaths. This was intentional on the part of the writer to emulate how the TV series has disproportionately dark major villains.
-   Pom Pom's Eleven features the main _Homestar Runner_ characters trying to get back at Homeschool Winner for stealing from them. Since it's Homestar Runner we're speaking of, one would expect them to be as comedic as ever and Homeschool Winner to be an Ineffectual Sympathetic Villain. Though the Homestar Runner characters are as comedic as ever, Homeschool Winner turns out to be a legitimate and rather cunning threat to the cast. For starters, he was responsible for their website closing down as he had secretly been embezzling from their website for years, and he had also stolen precious possessions from the cast when they were forced to sell them to pay off their debts. If that wasn't enough, he also turns out to have tricked Marzipan into breaking up with Homestar. And when his crimes have been revealed, he proceeds to stab Homestar Runner in the chest with a knife.
-   _Moonstuck_ is a story about a pony on the moon meeting lots of friends and going on silly adventures that you shouldn't take seriously. Its villains are a usurping, tyrannical regent who fully intended to _kill_ Woona and her friends, Woona's Enemy Without that delivers multiple Curb Stomp Battles and vicious Breaking Speeches, and Discord, who is just as nasty as his canon self with _none_ of the comedy, often falling into full-blown Eldritch Abomination territory.
-   _Magna Clades_, a _Steven Universe_ fanfic, gives us Zoisite, an Evil Chancellor who is willing to exterminate humans because he thinks of them as dirty animals. At one point, he even _rapes Connie!_
-   _Mischief (MHA)_: The story may be a little upsetting at some points, but is primarily a comedy with plenty of Slice of Life sprinkled through it, with main villains like Hirona and Loki receiving room to show their Hidden Depths. Other villains, however, really make the story take a dark turn.
    -   Gorr is the first genuine threat faced by the students, his galatic rampage leaving bodies behind, his wicked sense of humour and his willingness to destroy anyone for the sake of his revenge make him a perfect example of it. He brutally murders Yoroi Musha during the Internships arc and laughs of it.
    -   Kraven the Hunter and Taskmaster. These guys may work for the League of Villains here, but they clearly outclass all of them, Lady Nagant being the exception, and they are a serious danger to anyone unfortunate enough to cross them. Shishido ended on the short end of the stick during chapter 49, being quickly defeated by Kraven before being executed by Taskmaster.
    -   Ultron. From the moment he is _mentioned_ by David Shield, all levity from the story vanishes, or at the very least is diminished. Then he debuts during I-Island arc, and everything about him is seriously Played for Horror.
-   _One Wish For Nothing_ is one of the more light-hearted stories in _Songs of Lost Children_, even being the only story in the 99 Worlds Verse to have a comedy tag. However, its main antagonist, Stronghold Halfdragon, is one of the most dangerous and vengeful villains in the entire series.
-   Siegmund Schnee, Weiss' grandfather from _Weiss Reacts_\- a Card-Carrying Villain who outright attempts to _kill_ Weiss and her team- and that's not even going into what he _did_ in the backstory. Keep in mind that the Reactsverse tends to be Slice of Life oriented, and that up until then, the villains had Poke the Poodle evil and acted like jerks at best.
-   _Persona: The Sougawa Files_, while having its dark moments, is generally lighthearted in tone, with the Shadow Selves even having comedic quirks that keep them from getting too dark. However, all that goes out the window with two villains:
    -   Nobuyuki Itou is the biggest crime lord in Sougawa and seeks to seize control of it, controlling the Shadows and ruling with an iron fist. He's played seriously each time he's onscreen, and proves how dangerous he is by trashing Rina's house and beating her sister to near-death.
    -   Yuudai Honda, the true antagonist of the story, initially seems like a Laughably Evil bumbling idiot meant to play comedically off Nobuyuki, but it turns out he has greater ambitions than his boss ever did. While his motives are understandable and to some extent agreeable, he's hands down responsible for some of the darkest moments in the story, including the reveal of _everything_ he did to Satomi, his brutal Curb-Stomp Battle against Rina, and his gruesome final battle. At the very least, he's a Graceful Loser.
-   _Dragon Ball Z Abridged_: While still somewhat played for laughs, Cell is treated as a more serious threat than the other villains and is given a creepy and unnerving rapist vibe. The episodes leading up to his introduction play his arrival with a lot of menace, with a character outright noting a change in tone.
-   In SlifofinaDragon’s _Sengoku Basara_ modern day fanfics (set after the _Gakuen Basara_ anime), we’ve got Toyotomi Hideyoshi serving as the first main antagonist and his daughter Kagehime. Whereas most _SB_ villains have toned down and have laughable moments, she’s almost as dark as her Warring States counterpart, attempting to get revenge through the usage of witchcraft on Date Masamune and Sanada Yukimura’s son Masa for the latter’s Split Personality Sei for wiping out the Toyotomi syndicate as payback for Oyamada Nobushige’s murder, even if it inflicts death.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _A Very Brady Sequel_: Trevor Thomas was the associate of archaeologist Roy Martin, Carol’s first husband. Trevor resorted to cutting the fuel line to their boat and leaving Roy and the six others on board to die (though from the sound of things, they may have been stranded on a desert island instead). He later poses as Roy to get into the good graces of the Bradys and resorts to kidnapping Carol and threatening people with a gun to get what he wants, which is their antique horse valued at about $20 million.
-   The 1995 Australian kid's film _Napoleon_ is mostly about a cute puppy's adventures in the Australian outback...except when it's about an insane feral cat trying to murder him.
-   The _Back to the Future_ trilogy is a fairly lighthearted for the most part, with even the Big Bad Tannen family being Laughably Evil. The same cannot be said for the Libyan Terrorists, who are played dead serious. Even ignoring how their plan of developing nuclear bombs is by far the darkest and most dangerous crime in the franchise, they ruthlessly murder Doc Brown in the original timeline and then attempt to do the same to Marty before the latter travels back in time.
-   _Children's Party at the Palace_ has some seriously devious villains compared to the lighthearted romp it is for the most part, though most of them had pretty lukewarm plans (as Burglar Bill planned to steal Queen Elizabeth II's handbag, not the Queen herself). Even the Grand High Witch had some malicious intents, even mentioning about "boiling children".
-   _Chitty Chitty Bang Bang_ is for the most part lighthearted - but the Child Catcher more than makes up for that lightheartedness. Seriously, his name kind of says it all.
-   _Clock Stoppers_: Henry Gates. This is a movie about kids freezing time and not a sci-fi thriller about manipulating the device to be used by an Evil Corporation, yes? No? Gates is dead serious in pretty much all of his scenes and clearly cares nothing for what the potential consequences of manipulating time could be. He's willing to use anyone who is of value towards his goals and is more than capable of having those who interfere stomped out if he deems necessary.
-   _Daigoro vs Goliath_ certainly has its dramatic moments (such as the death of Daigoro's mother or trying to deal with the kaiju's growth and difficulty keeping him fed), but is overall lighthearted and comical...until the title villain Goliath enters the picture. Not only is his introductory scene ominous, with a storm appearing out of nowhere and the music taking on a darker air, but Goliath promptly beats Daigoro nearly to death before rampaging across Japan, all of which is treated much more seriously than the first half of the film.
-   _Dennis the Menace_: Switchblade Sam is a dirty, dark and crooked thief who through the course of the movie steals money and jewelry from people's houses, steals a little girl's antique doll, steals a kid's apple right out of his hand and threatens kids with his knife in general. Even though he was made the Butt-Monkey at the end of the movie, he was so dark for an otherwise very whimsical comedy that Siskel & Ebert each cited him as the main reason why they weren't recommending the movie. One would think with the performance that Christopher Lloyd gave in this movie that he thought he was auditioning for _Cape Fear_!
-   _Galaxy Quest_ is a lighthearted Actor/Role Confusion comedy with endearingly innocent aliens and the cast of a _Star Trek_ Expy... and the villain Sarris is a sadistic, genocidal maniac, not above murdering underlings who fail him, who takes a specific glee in forcing Jason to Break the Cutie.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
-   _Ghost Busters 1984_: A classic lighthearted 80s comedy with a fun bunch of characters—at least, until Gozer and company start to show up. Then again, Gozer's manifestation ends up being, while giant, a cartoon junk food mascot.
-   _Good Burger_: Kurt Boswell, though somewhat over-the-top and a little bit of a Large Ham, is incredibly vicious and uncompromising in how he deals with his business, insubordinate employees and crushing any unwanted competition. In a movie based on an _All That_ comedy sketch of all things, he goes as far as to try to poison Good Burger's customers in order to ruin the business. In a sketch it might have been a small thing, but in the movie, the consumption of that poison was likely to either cause severe illness or death. While there were villainous characters on _All That_ who would threaten others and succeed in taking lives, it was always Played for Laughs. In this case, it's not.
-   While often gentle and comedic in tone, _Hello Mary-Lou: Prom Night II_'s Mary Lou Maloney graphically burns to death, later to return from the grave on a murderous psychokinetic rampage - whose consequences are played unflinchingly for horror.
-   The villains in _The Love Bug_ movies are usually laughably evil, but the 1997 TV movie introduces Horace the Hate Bug, Herbie's downright sadistic Evil Twin who was created with The Power of Hate.
-   _Marvel Cinematic Universe_:
    -   _Guardians of the Galaxy (2014)_ is generally pretty lighthearted and fun... with the exception of Ronan the Accuser who is introduced with him literally bathing in the blood of executed Xandarians like some kind of perverse baptism. He is a genocidal maniac and brutal zealot who thinks that wiping out an entire planet as retribution for two deaths is a totally acceptable course of action.
    -   _Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2_ amps up the comedy and features Ego the Living Planet, who killed thousands and thousands of his own children, murdered the woman he loved by giving her cancer because she was distracting him from his master plan: to assimilate and absorb all planets in the universe and turn them into an extension of himself.
    -   _Thor: Ragnarok_ is a lighthearted, 80s-inspired space opera for the most part, but Hela is a blood-crazed, ultra-violent galactic conqueror and Omnicidal Maniac who quite literally lives for nothing except razing everything to the ground and slaughtering everyone in sight, and it is clear that once she gets her revenge on Asgard, she will set her sights on the entire universe.
    -   Considering how _Spider-Man: Far From Home_ is the first movie set after _Avengers: Endgame_, it is still quite lighthearted and is generally a coming-of-age tale much like its predecessor. Unlike Vulture (who was a decent, honest man given a raw deal who just wanted to give his family a comfortable lifestyle and ensure that his employees could do the same for their own, who, at worst, lost his way), however, Quentin Beck aka Mysterio is a disgusting human being who is all too willing to commit mass murder and wide-scale destruction just to satisfy a ridiculously petty personal grudge and shit all over Tony Stark's legacy, all while being completely and utterly unrepentant.
    -   _Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3_ is not without its comedic moments, but it is a much more personal and somber story than the previous two films, and the biggest reason for that is its villain: the High Evolutionary. Every scene with him darkens the mood of the story completely, with no comedy from him or other characters. Even the usually snarky and funny Guardians become dead serious in his presence and want nothing but his horrible and painful death.
-   _The Mask_ is a comedy mostly focused on the zaniness of its "live-action cartoon" protagonist. Yet the antagonist, Dorian Tyrell, is a ruthless mobster who would be welcome in the very violent bordering on comedy horror comic, particularly in how scary he gets once he puts on the mask.
-   While _A Million Ways to Die in the West_ is _not_ a saccharine movie by any means, it is still a comedy that doesn't take itself too seriously, but all of the comedy abruptly _stops_ once Clinch Leatherwood comes onscreen, and everything he does is treated dead seriously.
-   _Moonraker_ is probably the campiest, most lighthearted film in the James Bond franchise. And yet, its Big Bad, Hugo Drax is possibly the most diabolical villain in the franchise. As a cold, snobbish, understated executive, Drax wishes to exterminate the human race, except for those he considers "superior beings", being A Nazi by Any Other Name where his character in the novel was an actual Nazi. To this end, Drax captures men and women whom he sees as physically perfect, planning to keep these people in his giant space station while he covers the Earth in a rare toxin that will kill every human being on the planet.
-   _The Muppets_:
    -   _The Muppet Movie_ is a silly, good natured road movie that tells approximately how The Muppets got started, when Kermit meets Fozzie, Gonzo, Miss Piggy, etc, as they join him on a cross country road trip to Hollywood. Then we meet Doc Hopper, a greedy restaurateur who wants Kermit to be the new spokesperson for his struggling chain of frog leg restaraunts. After Kermit refuses his offers, Hopper relentlessly pursues him for nearly the whole trip, resorting to increasingly vicious means such as holding Piggy for ransom, hiring a Mad Scientist to have him brainwashed, and finally hiring assassins to hunt him down and kill him. Even as Kermit gives a heartfelt speech to try and reason with him, Hopper is unmoved and still orders him killed. He might have succeeded had not Animal, having grown to the size of a giant, thanks to Dr. Bunsen Honeydew, appeared and let out such a Mighty Roar at Hopper and his men that they flee for their lives.
    -   _Muppets Most Wanted_ has Constantine, a criminal mastermind who bears a strong resemblance to Kermit (save for a mole on his left cheek). He escapes from a maximum security prison in Siberia, Russia, sets Kermit up to look like Constantine and have him arrested, and replaces him for the Muppet World Tour, in order to fool the Muppets and use them for his Evil Plan to steal the Crown Jewels of England and frame them for the crime. Eventually, to get closer to the Crown Jewels, he proposes to Miss Piggy and has the wedding held at the Tower of London, and then attempts to kill her with a time bomb disguised as a wedding ring, which could've killed the rest of the Muppets as well.
-   In _Oz the Great and Powerful_, there is Evanora, The Wicked Witch of the East, who manipulates her formerly good sister Theodora, turning her into the Wicked Witch of the West.
-   _Paddington (2014)_ introduced a Cruella to Animals villain who wanted to kill Paddington and stuff him, and who also tortured a cab driver and outright tried to murder Paddington's human family, leading to a newspaper article complaining in general about why film versions of gentle kids' stories always seem to introduce a murderous villain to make the story "bigger".
    -   Notably, _Paddington 2_ averted this with a much Lighter and Softer villain.
-   In the farcical crime comedy _Raising Arizona_, one of The Coen Brothers' more optimistic movies, the possibly demonic biker Leonard Smalls stands out as a genuinely menacing villain amid a cast of bumbling crooks and other residents of rural Arizona's Cloudcuckooland.
-   _Romancing the Stone_: Ira and Ralph, even if they kidnapped Joan's sister and just appear to be the Big Bad Ensemble of the movie, are pretty much low in threat level (Ira, even if a Dirty Coward and a drug dealer, is also a man of his word and lets Joan and her sister go the moment he has the stone, as he promised). Zolo, however, is a homicidal psychopath that uses the country's Secret Police as his private army and Ira and Ralph both repudiate and _are afraid_ of him.
-   _Return of the Jedi_ may be the most lighthearted film in the _Star Wars_ saga, but Emperor Palpatine is easily the most threatening villain in the entire saga, being The Sociopath who embraces his evil openly, manipulates a father and son into nearly killing each other, and enjoys electrically torturing a young man in front of his father using the Force. Jabba the Hutt is not quite as vile as Palpatine, but he is still an example being an extremely gluttonous and sadistic letch who enjoys enslaving young women as performers and feeding people he does not like to various monsters.
-   While _SHAZAM! (2019)_ is easily the most lighthearted entry in the DCEU, things take a turn whenever the demonically-enhanced Dr. Sivana is on-screen. The Punch Catch he performs on Billy in their first encounter signals that shit is about to gets real following Billy's goofy antics. His very presence turns the movie from a wacky coming-of-age comedy into a supernatural horror movie.
-   _Something Wild_ is a quirky comedy—till Ray Liotta makes his entrance.
-   Dr. Robotnik from _Sonic the Hedgehog (2020)_ is an interesting example. While the film itself is a lighthearted buddy comedy film and Dr. Robotnik is a Laughably Evil Large Ham who provides a few humorous moments himself, he is depicted as a cruel and sociopathic being whose main goal in the film is to capture and kill Sonic.
-   _Superhero Movie_ is an irreverent, Seltzer and Friedberg\-esque comedy (actually from _Scary Movie_ alumni Craig Mazin and David Zucker) which spends most of its time pastiching and lampooning 2000's-era superhero movies, up to its idiotic protagonist being an expy of Tobey Maguire's Spider-Man. Despite this, the villain — a Life Drinker named Hourglass — is taken very seriously, having very few comedic beats and played as an actual threat with legitimately imposing powers. He's competent and original enough that he probably could make a decent villain in a more dramatic, non-parodic superhero film.
-   For most of _Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1990)_, it is indeed a light-hearted, jokey romp of the titular martial arts reptiles...until whenever The Shredder enters. Every scene he's in is _not_ played for laughs (even when the Turtles don't take him seriously at first and crack wise), is more than willing to let Splinter rot to death in chains, and the flashbacks show Oroku Saki outright murdering Hamato Yoshi and his wife in cold blood. Leonardo is certainly about to face the same fate until Splinter's arrival.
    
    **Shredder**: _\[pins Leonardo down at swordpoint\]_ He dies!
    
    _\[the Turtles stop in their tracks\]_
    
    **Shredder**: Weapons! Now!
    
    _\[the Turtles reluctantly throw their weapons aside\]_
    
    **Shredder**: Fools! The three of you might have overpowered me with the loss of but one! Now your fate...WILL BE HIS! _\[readies the strike\]_
    
-   For the most part _Thoroughly Modern Millie_ is a happy-go-lucky musical in the vein of _Singin' in the Rain_. "For the most part" means "except for the parts with Mrs. Meers, a woman who kidnaps people and sells them into a human trafficking ring."
-   The _Ultra Series_ have several movies of its own, and while some of the movies are Lighter and Softer, they tend to feature rather horrifying villains.
    -   The _Ultraman Zearth_ movies are basically a parody of the archetypal Ultramen show, featuring the inexperienced Ultraman rookie, Zearth bumbling around through his day job as a janitor, getting into trouble, being an accident-prone Butt-Monkey and a Hypochondriac that hilariously freaks out at the slightest sign of dirt, and being a complete klutz in both movies. Yet the villains of each movies are the Benzene aliens, a husband-wife team of planet destroyers and universal conquerors. Benzene of the first movie intends to suck up all the gold resources in the world to be fed to his monster, Cotton-pope, which will make the monster powerful enough to unleash an Earth-Shattering Kaboom that reduce the entire planet into debris; while in the sequel Lady Benzene is capable of hypnotizing and abducting entire populations of cities, and intends to turn everyone on earth as her own army of brainwashed, mindless drones.
    -   _Ultraman Gaia: The Battle In Hyperspace_ is a spin-off movie of the _Ultraman Gaia_ series, and a Slice of Life movie that is set in _our_ world instead of the Ultramen universe. Yet it features the dangerous monster, Kingmons, who almost wipes out the entirety of Tokyo in an exceedingly long city destruction scene, with the movie's climax featuring children nearly getting killed by the monster's rampage.
    -   _Ultraman Cosmos 2: The Blue Planet_: A spin-off movie from _Ultraman Cosmos_, probably the lightest and most optimistic installment in the series at its time, and yet the Big Bad of the film is Sandros, an Omnicidal Maniac and Planet Killer who had wiped out entire populations of every planet it has ravaged, is a Plaguemaster of a monster who instantly turns entire oceans on Earth into wastelands, and is the most powerful and dangerous monster Cosmos and the earth has faced at that point of the series.
-   Judge Doom from _Who Framed Roger Rabbit_. The film initially seems like a classical family movie until we meet him. We discover that not only is he responsible for all the bad things that happen in the movie, but he's also the same psychopathic murderous toon who killed Eddie Valiant's brother long ago and he was planning the genocide of his own species to profit him.
-   The 1939 film version of _The Wizard of Oz_ portrays the Land of Oz as a Sugar Bowl, but the Wicked Witch of the West is even worse than her literary counterpart, openly planning to kill Dorothy and with _much_ more powerful magic.
-   _Beverly Hills Chihuahua_ is otherwise a lighthearted movie about talking dogs, but El Diablo, a vicious trained Doberman who can kill people, has no qualms on beating a female chihuahua, and in the sequel, threatens to kill puppies, it's a Nightmare Fuel source (after all, his name in Spanish means "The Devil").

    Literature 

-   _Birdsong_, a children's picture book by Gale Haley, is as saccharine as they come, being the story of a Heartwarming Orphan who can communicate with birds, illustrated in beautiful watercolor paintings. Its villain, Jorinella, has no humorous or light-hearted aspects whatsoever. She's a sadistic poacher who deceives and abuses the heroine to boost her bird-trapping operation.
-   _Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator_, by Roald Dahl, has the sudden intrusion of a Horde of Alien Locusts into an outer space sequence that until then is mostly whimsical.
-   _Freak the Mighty_: Max's father “Killer Kane” is a wife murdering sociopath that gave Max PTSD when he killed his mother, kidnaps him from his grandparents, calls him a dumb animal when he accidentally trips and falls, ties him up so he can’t escape, nearly strangles one of his friends to death when they try to help Max escape, and would have killed Max too if Freak haven’t arrived to save them. As you can imagine Killer Kane notably darkens the tone of the book whenever he is mentioned or seen.
-   _Goodnight Mister Tom_: The character of Will's mother feels as though she belongs in some form of dark tragedy/drama, rather than this mostly warm-hearted children's story. She's a deranged Christian fundamentalist who frequently beats and abuses Will to the point that he's barely functional and severely traumatised when Tom first meets him, then locks him in a cupboard with his infant sister to starve (killing the baby and nearly killing Will too) when he returns to London, then offing herself not too long after that. Yeesh.
-   _Gorgo the Ogre_ is, overall, a child-friendly story, but the King of the Black Ogres is really a despicable, childishly cruel sociopath willing to kill his subjects on the slightest whim, even when they're doing the right thing, and tries to disintegrate the protagonist with a series of magical stones. Not to mention his horrible appearance.
-   _The Great Brain:_ Most of the stories either play Tom's antics for laughs or focus on the sense of community in Adenville. However, the villains can be genuinely terrifying and nasty.
    
    -   Buzz Beeler, from _Mama's Boarding House,_ is a sadistic logging boss who relishes beating up people who are minding their own business (once to the point where his victim dies from the beating) out of boredom, racism, or Revenge by Proxy strikes at his enemies. At fifteen, he killed his abusive guardian and framed a black man (who was lynched) for the crime. When the Fitzgeralds keep him from being lynched for his crimes, Beeler comes out of the experience unrepentant and seeking revenge. He even goads the paraplegic Will Fitzgerald into a gunfight, while sporting a Slasher Smile.
    
    **Buzz Beeler:** Only one thing I hate worse than gre\*ser, and that's a n\*gger.
    
    -   Cal Roberts (from _Me and My Little Brain_), kills two guards to break out of prison and seek revenge against the judge, prosecutor, and jury foreman who convicted him (with the jury foreman being Mr. Fitzgerald). Roberts tries to lynch the judge and then kidnaps four-year-old Frankie as a hostage, planning to kill him afterward. He even makes a dismissive We Have Reserves comment upon hearing that several of them have been killed in a shootout.
-   The third _The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy Trilogy_ novel, _Life, the Universe and Everything_, introduces two villainous factions that are surprisingly dark for such a wacky series:
    -   The Krikkiters are a culture of Absolute Xenophobes who want to destroy the life on all other planets, purely because finding out that they weren't alone in the universe caused an existential shock. It turns out that they were directed onto this path by Hactar, who wanted them to become a force of genocidal destruction purely out of spite.
    -   Agrajag, the unknown nemesis of Arthur Dent, is a soul who remembers all their previous incarnations, all of whose deaths were (unwittingly) caused by Arthur. They eventually incarnate as a hideous bat creature and abduct Arthur to their Cathedral of Hate in order to kill him. Then Arthur accidentally causes their death again.
-   Tove Jansson's _The Moomins_ take place in Moominvalley which is, at least at a very quick glance, somewhat of a saccharine world in the early novels and some of the adaptations. Then we are introduced to the Groke. The revelation in later stories that she's a Tortured Abomination rather than consciously evil may make her less, or even more, horrifying depending on your taste.
-   _Riley McDaniels_: There is an optimistic tone to the story and plenty of whimsical moments and characters, but the villains are vicious gangsters who are poisoning an old woman. Also, the only reason they Wouldn't Hurt a Child after capturing the narrator and his family is because they could make money selling those kids into modern-day slavery picking cotton (with it being subtly implied they plan to sell the boys’ mother into sexual slavery).
-   In some fairytales by Sofia Prokofieva, especially nasty villains can appear in especially unexpected surroundings.
    -   _The Island of Captains_. There is the Fairytale Ocean, full of lovely islands such as the Lunch Break Island, on which everything is ringing, the Hide-and-Seek Island, which dives underwater whenever a ship approaches it, or the titular Island of Captains, populated by the captains and crews of toy ships. And there is a ruthless pirate leader who prepares to take over the Island of Captains and slaughter the crew of every toy ship that comes there.
    -   _Freckle_ is a lighthearted tale of a sun ray that comes alive and makes friends with a girl, and the main antagonist is the heroine's unpleasant neighbor who can do little actual damage. However, the ray decides to explain how he got torn off the sun. That story involves a Fat Bastard of a duke who tries to rape a peasant girl and only agrees to let her go if her fiancé brings him a chest of gold before the sun sets; thanks to that duke, the ray clings to a bell-tower and painfully breaks off from the sun.
-   _Tatu and Patu_: Dr. Void, the villain of "Tatu and Patu as Superheroes", plans to replace the citizens of Ylivetola with robots, with the implication that he's going to kill them. Most of the books don't have antagonists at all, and the only other major ones, the space giant from "Tatu and Patu's Space Adventure" and the Halver from "Tatu and Patu as Detectives" are only Obliviously Evil and a little girl who never does anything more evil than cutting and hiding some things, respectively.
-   _Teen Power Inc._: There are kid friendly Aesops, a lot of humor, and Character Development, but a surprisingly large number of villains are explicitly stated to have killed someone. Recurring villain the Wolf is easily the worst of them, as Zim says everyone else who ever crossed him in the past turned up dead and the Wolf later has his goons kidnap the whole gang while planning to gas them to death once he gets a chance to gloat in person.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _All in the Family_ had Lambert, who stood out as a Serial Rapist played straight in a _sitcom_. While the show had several other dark episodes, no other character reached the same level of depravity.
-   _The Aquabats! Super Show!_ is a surreal children's show that runs on pure silly camp. Then in the season finale Space Monster M shows up murders superheroes before the team's eyes, devastates a city, and vows to destroy the earth.
-   _Batman (1966)_ had Mr. Freeze. Unlike all the other villains, who merely wanted to rob banks and play pranks and the like, Freeze only wanted to _kill Batman out of revenge_ - in his first appearance, anyway.
-   _Big Bad Beetleborgs_ had Shadowborg, who appeared in the much more lighthearted first season of the show. Whereas most of the Magnavores were Laughably Evil Harmless Villains, Shadowborg is powerful, frighteningly competent, and has little to no humor except for sarcasm and deadpan one-liners mocking the heroes. He not only curbstomps the Borgs in his first appearance without even trying and served as an Implacable Man for most of his arc, his attack on the town is portrayed as dead serious as opposed to the more petty crimes his fellows committed, with him actively trying to hurt innocent people, resulting in Heather being hospitalized with a broken leg. Until Nukus showed up, Shadowborg was the most serious villain the show got.
-   _Brooklyn Nine-Nine_:
    -   Jake's cellmate in Florida, Caleb the Cannibal, who moved across the country multiple times and killed and ate children. He refers to their blood as "sauce". In a twist, however, he isn't actually the _villain_ of the episodes where he appears; he's rather friendly and helpful to Jake, who is a little disturbed by how likeable he finds Caleb.
    -   Dr Tate in Season 6's "The Therapist." He slept with his patient, murdered her husband and framed him for it, and reveals in a single offhand remark that he murdered a previous couple after sleeping with the wife and "nobody misses them."
    -   Lt. Hawkins, a badass Cowboy Cop that Jake and Rosa were fanboying over who turns out to be a ruthless bank robber. She ends up framing them for her crimes, causing a rare The Bad Guy Wins Downer Ending for such a lighthearted show
-   _Gilligan's Island_: The show is a goofy sitcom about seven people suffering the problems of being trapped on a very wacky uncharted island. Jonathan Kinkaid, the titular character from "The Hunter", outstrips most of the antagonists in nastiness and quickly changes the episode into an unexpectedly dark one. He starts off as just another visitor to the island. However, once it sinks in that no one knows the Castaways are on the island, he decides with disturbing rapidity to see what it's like to hunt and kill a human.
-   _Guest from the Future_ is a sweet story about friendship, kindness, loyalty, a bright utopian future, time travels and two murderous space pirates who don't hesitate to torture a child and plan to take over the world. Actually lampshaded in the torture scene by one of the pirates, who provides quite a bit of comic relief in the earlier episodes:
    
    We are not so funny after all...
    
-   _Hope & Faith_: One episode had Hope serving on a jury, while Faith watches the trial. It's revealed that the defendant is being framed for attempted murder by her husband and daughter. These two would be more at home in a Soap Opera, not a family friendly sitcom. Appropriately, Faith who uncovered their plot, is a soap opera star.
-   _Kamen Rider_: Even when the series gets lighter, the villains tend to stay just as threatening.
    -   _Kamen Rider Fourze_ is a Lighter and Softer High School version of _Kamen Rider_. The monsters, known as Zodiarts, are actually fellow students—many of them having lots of psychological issues—alongside the teachers who actively are giving them the means to become evil. It has the _most_ amount of monsters out of all the Kamen Rider Series with a total of at _least_ eight that are trying to kill teenagers.
    -   _Kamen Rider Saber_ is an optimistic story that ranks with _Fourze_ when it comes to lighter seasons of _Kamen Rider_. The villains? An Omnicidal Maniac who wants to create a world of suffering purely to entertain himself and a Satanic Archetype bent on putting an end to everything out of nihilism.
-   _Kickin' It_'s Sensei Ty started out this way; in The Pilot he ordered a student to break Jack's leg. Let me restate that - _he ordered a teenage martial artist to break another, younger one's leg in tournament play_. He's gotten broader and sillier since.
-   _Lost in Space_: Dr. Smith in a sense, particularly if watched out of order. Smith became increasingly clownish as the show went on and it can be quite startling to go from a season 2 or 3 episode back to the beginning of season 1, where he was a cold blooded spy who attempted to murder the Robinson family. He also may have murdered a guard who caught him.
-   _Malcolm in the Middle_ has Grandma Ida. While she is Played for Laughs, there's no denying that she's probably the most evil character on the show.
-   _Odd Squad_: Most of the villains seen on the show aren't terribly evil. While they most definitely Would Hurt a Child and frequently antagonize agents, a majority of their attacks are harmless and their motives are more or less to cause oddness For the Evulz. However, there have been villains who are far more threatening and actively seek to harm Odd Squad and its agents.
    -   By far the biggest example is Odd Todd. A former diligent agent of Precinct 13579 who was also the former partner of Olive, he is an Evil Genius whose skill in the realm of mathematics exceeds that of his coworkers. Back when he was an agent named Todd, he was so skilled at solving cases that he got bored and did a Face–Heel Turn, going to the side of oddness. Eventually he was fired for intentionally letting Tiny Dancer cause oddness, which was the final nail in the coffin for him to become a villain and attack Precinct 13579. He is the catalyst for Olive's trauma and constantly bullied her when the two worked at the precinct, he was known as The Dreaded among the agents of the precinct before his debut, and he has no problem going after and physically harming other agents as well as citizens of the town. Even after his Heel–Face Turn, he still keeps some of the traits he had as a villain, and _Odd Squad: World Turned Odd_ shows exactly how terrifying the world would have been had he succeeded in defeating Odd Squad. He is easily the most iconic villain in the entire franchise, and it shows.
    -   The Season 2 finale has Otis and his duck family. While they don't have any powers, Brother Quack, the leader of the ducks and ostensibly Otis' adoptive father, and the rest of the duck family managed to build a machine that would bring the Earth closer to the sun in an attempt to permanently stop winter from coming. Otis, realizing that this would kill everyone on the planet including the ducks, betrayed his family and worked together with Odd Squad in order to stop them, pulling a Heel–Face Turn. As a result of his betrayal, Otis suffers from an Absurd Phobia of ducks that lasts throughout the season, as he is afraid that his family will want vengeance on him for what he did. Luckily, they aren't vengeful and all and come to realize that Otis was only protecting them, and Brother Quack reconciles with his adopted son, pulling a Heel–Face Turn of his own.
    -   There's also Ohlm from Season 2. A seemingly-harmless agent who's loyal to Odd Squad and is by far the biggest ditz around. However, it's merely a facade. His _true_ personality is that of The Smart Guy who faked his stupidity in order to take over Odd Squad because he wasn't immediately promoted to the position of the Big O upon graduating the Odd Squad Academy and was instead made an Investigation agent. He made a Face–Heel Turn and became an Evil Genius instead, vowing to use his smarts to destroy the organization and stealing practically anything of benefit he could get his hands on in order to give it to various villains so they could commit acts of oddness and break into Precinct 13579's Headquarters. Despite numerous setbacks, he gains the upper hand when Oprah and Otis gets themselves fired and exiled from Odd Squad, as he is promoted to the Management position of the precinct in place of the former. In his new position, he enacts his ultimate plan to build a black hole out of _every single gadget in the precinct's possession_ — 10,000 of them in total — and suck every single agent into it, effectively killing them. It's very telling that he's the only Big Bad of the franchise that doesn't get redeemed in any manner, as when he's defeated by Olympia, Otis, Oprah and Oona and has his life saved by them, he refuses to give up, doesn't even thank them for saving his life, and ends up being placed in the hands of his parents, who ground him and send him to his room.
    -   Season 3 has The Shadow, yet another Enfant Terrible Big Bad who could easily stand toe-to-toe with Odd Todd for just how nasty and clever she is. Her first major appearance has her hacking into the Odd Squad Mobile Unit van and attempting to drown it in the Lake of Goo, while also attempting to take _the Mobile Unit themselves_ down with it. When that fails, she decides to change course and uses Odd Squad's _modus operandi_ against them, forming the Villain Network comprised of every single villain in existence in order to take down the organization using the power of teamwork. Opal, confused as to who "The Shadow" is, eventually finds out her true identity and her true name: Olizabeth, her younger sister. However, having her identity exposed doesn't deter the villainess in the slightest, as she continues to push on with her plan to have the villains in the Villain Network release oddness through the tubes at Tube Central Station to reach all of the Odd Squad precincts in the world by funnelling their powers into a single cube connected to the tubes. Even when Opal tries to convince her to stop what she's doing, admitting that she was too overprotective and telling her sister that she has lots of potential, she refuses to listen...that is, until Opal plays an entry from her Captain's Log saying how she is "the smartest person Odd Squad has ever been up against", at which point it finally sinks in. While she does pull a Heel–Face Turn and reforms, she's easily considered one of the most threatening villains the show has ever had and gives Odd Squad quite the difficult time.
-   _Once Upon a Time in Wonderland_ is notably Lighter and Softer than the series it spun off from. The Big Bad, however, is Jafar, bastard son of the Sultan of Agrabah, Evil Sorceror, and all-around monster. Every episode has him doing something despicable: torture, murder, attempted murder, manipulation, and turning his lover into his serpent staff. He also has a particularly dark backstory that features his equally horrible father attempting to drown him when he was a child among other things.
-   Polish Soap Opera _Plebania_ (eng: presbytery) was an optimistic and kind, sometimes to the point of naivety, show about daily lives of people in small village and efforts of a local parson and his new vicar to solve their small problems. Yet not only it had a recurring villain, it was one of the vilest characters in Polish TV, a sadistic, petty, ruthless gangster with a bone to pick with God, who loved to crush peoples hopes and dreams while rubbing in their faces he is rich enough to get away with it. Years after the show went off air he achieved Memetic Badass status due to how over-the-top cruel he could be.
-   _Power Rangers_:
    -   _Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers_ tried this with Lord Zedd, contrasting the ineffectual Wicked Witch Rita Repulsa with a _seriously_ villainous and terrifying boss. Moral Guardians complained that he was too evil, and he was repeatedly toned down and softened through various devices until his villain family had become a comedy sketch act. Later villains are even darker than Zedd.
    -   Queen Bansheera was a cruel ruler who obsessed only on restoring her kingdom and punished anyone who failed her, even her own son. When he was seemingly destroyed, she laughed it off, something even the demons who hated him were unsettled by.
    -   In a season with a robot armadillo being kicked like a soccer ball or the leader of the rangers who was raised in the jungle, Master Org was the first villain in the series to get away with onscreen murder of humans that was never undone.
    -   _Power Rangers Megaforce_ is notoriously known to be one of the more panned seasons, yet it has another disturbing villain in the form of Vrak. Vrak is a sadistic sociopathic Chessmaster who also happens to be the youngest son of a Galactic Conqueror. He is known to cheerfully manipulate and use his own allies like pawns, and frequently tricks them to their deaths, even his own admiral. His menacing cyborg form only shows that he has become delusional and egotistical enough to be totally uncaring towards the people who have been nothing but loyal to him, as shown when he practically told Metal Alice, who did nothing but rebuild him and serve him faithfully, that she meant nothing to him and left her to die without any remorse, an act which especially disgusted the Rangers.
-   _Punky Brewster_ for a lot if not most part is a slice-of-life sitcom about a little girl and her hijinx with her newfound family and friends. Most of it is relatively harmless, until the Unexpectedly Dark Episode two-parter "The Perils of Punky", where an evil spirit torments poor Punky Brewster by taking away her friends and turning them into horrifying abominations, showing her darkest fear of being abandoned by her guardian Henry, and when Punky finally confronts the evil spirit, he plans to literally kill her, which thankfully Punky overcomes this and defeats the evil spirit by showing positive emotions. Still, this two-parter is the darkest episode for these reasons.
-   Not that anybody in _Seinfeld_ is a particularly good person, but at least most of the cast are generally harmless. Crazy Joe Davola, on the other hand, is an extremely unstable maniac who becomes obsessed with Elaine, leading to a pretty frightening scene where she's alone with him in his apartment and he seems ready to hurt her. The fact he dresses up as a clown on one occasion doesn't help matters.
-   _Skins_ has Dr. John Foster, from season 4. Any trace of levity or comedy disappears whenever he is involved in the plot of the episodes. While the series from its inception always had its fair share of heavy themes and/or serious moments, the tone of the series was mostly toned down given that it is a Teen Drama with some elements of Dramedy, Black Comedy and Slice of Life. The arrival of this guy, however, marks a before and after, being an outlier even among the series' nastiest characters, not to mention the fact that he is the first and only antagonist to kill someone important from the main cast. He is certainly one of the few villains on the show to pose a true and active threat to the main characters.
-   An in-universe example appears on _Star Trek: Voyager_ with the Show Within a Show _The Adventures of Flotter_, a series of fantasy holonovels for children. One of the title adventures involves a character called the Ogre of Fire, who shows-up, _vaporizes the main character in front of the child's eyes_, and then torches the setting to the ground.
-   _Super Sentai_
    -   _Himitsu Sentai Gorenger_ is a much more light-hearted show in comparison to _Kamen Rider_, but while the villains may wear Colorful and outlandish masks, they're still a ruthless terrorist organization who have no problem maiming women or children in pursuit of their goals, and occasionally carry out attacks that are shockingly realistic given the setting.
    -   _Ninpuu Sentai Hurricaneger_ is a pretty goofy season, and for the most part the villains reflect that, but there are two exceptions: Tau Zant, the Big Bad, a megalomaniac bent on killing everyone in the universe and remaking it into one where he reigns supreme, and Sandaaru, The Dragon, a cold Professional Killer and One-Man Army responsible for one of the most impactful deaths in the series. And then there's the Eldritch Abomination the two try to summon...
    -   Yogoshimacritein - The true Big Bad in _Engine Sentai Go-onger_. Not only is he more evil than his son, but he's also a _very_ Bad Boss, killing off his two minions once they double-cross him to help the Go-Ongers. He also has access to a device that _deletes_ people from existence.
-   _Thunderbirds_ has the Hood, who regularly causes disasters that could potentially kill hundreds or thousands of people, just to force International Rescue into action so that he can try to copy their technology.
-   _Victorious_ is a typical Kid Com, albeit with slightly more risqué humour than usual. However, one episode involved the protagonists going to the country of Yerba, which was ruled by a dictatorial Chancellor. Said Chancellor ends up arresting the protagonists after he is accidentally blinded. Also, the country is in the middle of a Civil War. The audience is shown this when the military arrests a man off the street and the sound of gunfire can be heard at times. While the show does treat this humorously, this isn't the typical villain you'd expect from this kind of show.

    Podcasts 

-   _Pokemon: Adventures in the Millennium_ starts with Starr, who is incredibly cruel to her allies and enemies and is implied to have killed her abusive father. She's later usurped by The Logos Corporation, who believe humanity and Pokemon can only be saved by culling the weakest of the population.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   Surprisingly, Eddie Guerrero. In 2005, he went from being a vaguely comedic character to a monster determined to take Rey Mysterio's son away from him, not to mention beating Rey to a bloody pulp and ripping off his mask - all because he was envious of Mysterio's success.
-   Edge was also always generally funny, but that ended when in 2008 he cheated on his wife - _on their wedding day_ - and was forced to face The Undertaker in Hell in a Cell in retaliation. He suffered a Villainous Breakdown, leading to him dropping Mick Foley through a table from a great height and stalking and jumping various members of his family and laying black roses on their unconscious bodies before launching a sneak attack on the rest in the ring and announcing he was going to drag them all down to hell with him.
-   It may be a bit inaccurate to call WWE "saccharine," but when most of the bad guys are just cowardly Smug Snakes and brutish Jerk Jocks, it definitely made The Wyatt Family - a cult of deranged hillbillies lead by a madman who may be possessed by The Devil (or something even worse) - stand out. Their leader, Bray Wyatt, got even worse when he was rebranded to be a Depraved Kids' Show Host with a Superpowered Evil Side which he calls "The Fiend".
-   After switching to a PG rating, the WWE has had a strict "No Blood" policy. Someone probably _tried_ to give Brock Lesnar the memo, but the guy most likely beat the messenger into a bloody pulp.

    Tabletop Games 

-   Inverted in _Princess: The Hopeful_, for which the premise is to take the _New World of Darkness_, a setting rivaled only by _Warhammer 40,000_ when it comes to being a Crapsack World and throw cute, idealistic Magical Girls as the protagonists.
-   _Brighthammer 40,000_, the Lighter and Softer parody of _Warhammer 40,000_, transforms the ordinarily grim and gritty factions into nicer and and genuinely heroic people, with the exception of the Tau who are presented as a brutal fascist empire utilizing mind control, genocide, and cannibalistic troops. This is in contrast to the canon Tau who were the closest thing in the 40k galaxy that are good guy factions. The joke ? Apart from slightly exaggerating some of their questionable motives and tactics from the original game, Brighthammer 40 000's Tau are pretty much identical and only look evil by contrast.

    Web Animation 

-   _Battle for Dream Island_:
    -   Flower was a huge Jerkass since episode 1, however, in the finale she destroyed all the Recovery Centers (which are the reason Death is Cheap in that universe) and promptly killed Bubble, making the latter the first person in the series to be Killed Off for Real (although she is back alive 3 episodes later). She is crushed by a UFO moments after.
    -   Leafy also undergoes a Face–Heel Turn in that episode, stealing Dream Island from the winner <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , nearly turns into Evil Leafy, and later throws knives at several character for disturbing her.
    -   Evil Leafy also deserves special recognition, being a murderous, silent, on-the-brink-of-Eldritch Abomination and just generally disturbing creature who eats people she catches. It’s notable as unlike the two above, she is _never_ played for laughs, which is surprising considering the series is a comedy.
-   _Hanazuki: Full of Treasures_ presents a world with bright colors, cute creatures that represent emotions, and an overarching villain known as the Big Bad, a black hole-like, all-consuming cosmic force with the ability to ravage moons of all life and turn them into a barren wasteland. The first moments of the show display its capability for destroying moons in mere seconds. Three Moonflowers end up facing this the hard way, Kiazuki, in addition to everything on her moon being destroyed, loses almost all her creatures to the depths of space except one (Zikoro) as her sole companion, and Maroshi loses his moon by having the water that makes up much of the land turn to ice and then explode. As for the cute emotion creatures, as we see with Red Hemka, prolonged exposure to the Big Bad causes them to suffer an illness that makes them fade into nonexistence if not treated. The only thing that can protect a moon from such a destructive being is the presence of Treasure Trees, and even then they need to be healthy and have a variety of colors shown, as Kyoshi’s forest of black (despair) trees are powerless.

    Webcomics 

-   While _Awful Hospital_ is an over-the-top horror comedy with a plethora of likeable and fun characters, there are a few villains that stand out from the crowd. One of them includes Jay, an absolutely monstrous and loathsome human patient the protagonist encounters in the maze of planks outside the titular hospital's surgical ward. He even treats her like dirt when they first meet and is an Absolute Xenophobe who won't hesitate to violently murder non-humans and even some friendly staff members of the Hospital and bury them in the walls, never to be remembered by anything again. And it's revealed he's done the same to dozens, if not hundreds of fellow patients! His actions are played much more seriously than most of the antagonists in this comic, adding even further to his Knight of Cerebus status.
    -   There's also the equally ominous and even more mysterious Parliament of the Old Flesh, who intends to condense all of existence into one single intelligence, the way it once was and where they originated from.\*
-   _Erma_ The Show Within a Show _Warrior Unicorn Princess_ is an example. The toys of it make it look like a girly show about colorful unicorns in pretty princess dresses. The actual show has the titular character facing skeleton unicorn knights, demons with heart-shaped heads and giant fire-breathing sunflowers, all commanded by a mysterious robed figure. Erma's babysitter even lampshades that the toys are false advertising.
-   Like other _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ examples on this page, _Star Mares_ villains are almost as bad (if a trifle less overtly deadly) as their _Star Wars_ equivalents - with the added bonus of most of them being familiar fallen heroes.
-   _Survivor: Fan Characters_ included a fan character from _Barbie_ in its ninth season, a cheerful girl with blonde hair, Innocent Blue Eyes, and a frilly pink dress... who turns out to use her "sweet, innocent girl" façade to get away with morally reprehensible acts such as falsely accusing her loving boyfriend of rape to get him voted out and _laughing_ when being called out on it, and deliberately breaking a player's leg in a challenge to get him medically evacuated and being _disappointed_ when his leg didn't even get infected.
    -   Before that, Season 5 had Maria, a quiet and not-aggressive girl... and Mo, her Split Personality which would scare the breakfast out of a psycho hospital. Among other things, she is also the very first person on the show to be ejected for violence, and not just ordinary violence, but a _murder attempt_.

    Web Original 

-   Channel Awesome:
    -   Much of the time, _Suburban Knights_ has the same tone as the rest of the site; definitely not for children and sometimes resorting to Refuge in Audacity, but still comical and not taking danger very seriously. However, this doesn't hold true when Malachite — an apparent complete sociopath who murders multiple innocent people just for using technology — is on screen. While most of the site's villains are Played For Dark Comedy, Malachite is almost always Played for Drama.
    -   The Rogues Gallery of _Atop the Fourth Wall_ has several baddies more serious than others on the site. These include Linkara's Evil Counterpart Mechakara, the grim warrior Lord Vyce, and a worlds\-destroying Eldritch Abomination know only as The Entity. Mechakara also appears in _To Boldly Flee_, where he is the only villain in the film who never behaves comically.
-   Cracked presents: 7 Badass Cartoon Villains Who Lost to Retarded Heroes. It must be added though that the list gives more emphasis on the sugar-ness of their nemeses rather than of the settings.
-   The Creepypasta _Candle Cove_ is partially based on this trope - it describes a low-budget pirate-themed puppet show for children, featuring a talking ship and a live-action little girl as the main character, yet features villains such as the Skin-Taker, an evil skeleton who does exactly that. It's also hinted that there are even darker forces in play.
-   _Chasing Butterflies_ is a light-hearted science-fantasy romp with more focus on the humorous and beautiful elements of its Eldritch Location setting, all until its Big Bad Mr. Hive walks in. Hive is a slaving trickster implied to have murdered dozens of xenos like the young, naive hero Sal and eventually ups his game to the attempted destruction of a harmless, Sugar Bowl snail city. His Co-Dragons, the Gentlemen, are more minor examples who herald some of the only real scenes of dark violence in the story.
-   _DC Super Hero Girls_ Is a very cute and lighthearted show, where most of the villains are either harmless or complete buffoons. And then we have Darkseid, a megalomaniacal despot who wants to turn the entire universe into a Dark World and turn everyone else into clones of himself with no personality or free will of their own. Fittingly, he's the final villain the girls face and effectively the Big Bad of the entire series.
-   _Epic Rap Battles of History_:
    -   While the series has always had vile villains (Adolf Hitler was in the second episode, after all), most of the time their atrocities are brought up in a way that Crosses the Line Twice. Jack the Ripper, however, never plays his crimes for anything other than pure horror. There is never even a hint of Black Comedy in his verses.
    -   To a lesser extent, his opponent, Hannibal Lecter. While Lecter gets more Laughably Evil moments than Jack, he's still played more for horror than villains in the rest of the series.
    -   Before either of them, the S2 finale gave us Joseph Stalin. Like Lecter, his verses still had some amount of Black Comedy, but his crimes were far more played for horror in contrast to earlier villains.
    -   Vlad the Impaler is in a similar boat as Stalin; he does have a few moments of Black Comedy in his verses, but overall he is presented as a dead-serious villain and his crimes are played for grimdark horror.
    -   Walt Disney, of all people, may be the darkest and most genuinely scary villain in the entire season, with a verse dedicated to the Disney company's absolute power and world domination with nothing played for laughs.
-   Sephiroth in _Final Fantasy VII: Machinabridged_. In a series full of goofy, almost cartoonish villains, he stands out by being just as awful if not moreso than his canon counterpart. After all, Sephiroth in canon didn't single out Cloud's mother and murder her to make Cloud "just like him".
-   While _Flander's Company_, being a show about a Company providing supervillains, tends to have some amount of violence, it's usually played as black comedy, and the first antagonists (introduced in season 2) were more comical than serious... until the finale, where Carla Burnelle almost annihilates the protagonists. Then come season 3, and we get Aegis, a group of overpowered Knight Templars who want to wipe out supervillains from Earth (despite supervillains being harmless Punch Clock Villains in this universe). They actually killed 75 of them, and it was not played for laughs.
-   _The Lizzie Bennet Diaries_ is mostly a fun, lighthearted romantic comedy set in a World of Snark. George Wickham is a Jerk Jock who previously took advantage of Gigi Darcy for her money, and then proceeds to emotionally abuse Lydia and isolate her from her family, before attempting to sell a sex tape of them without her knowledge or consent. He's stopped, but he never gets punished for it, either. Oh, and he's heavily implied to be an out-and-out _sociopath_.
-   Most _Neopets_ villains are Laughably Evil, but plot villains tend to be really EVIL.
-   _Reflets d'Acide_ is a fantasy Affectionate Parody of Heroic Fantasy, with heroes arguing with each others led by a Lovable Coward for a mission they don't clearly know themselves what it consist into. Most characters are either comically incompetent or Deadpan Snarkers. Then you get Alia-Aenor and Belial. The former is a Faux Affably Evil Bitch in Sheep's Clothing who enjoys killing people with a mass-murder necromantic spell; the latter is a Knight of Cerebus and a Demonlord with _no_ comical quirk, Abusive Parent tendencies and tendencies to pull a You Have Outlived Your Usefulness.
-   Most episodes of _Stampy's Lovely World_ take place in a Sugar Bowl and are fun and light-hearted... other than when HitTheTarget attacks, which leads to far more action-packed and intense episodes which can involve anything from kidnapping to mind control to outright torture... the latter of which has happened _on more than one occasion_. Oh, and his main plot to Take Over the World involves animal abuse, and The Dragon's villain arc kicked off with betrayal and the summoning of an Eldritch Abomination. What Do You Mean, It's for Kids?

___