A Likable Villain can be fun, either because they have a good goal, are pleasant or otherwise relatable. But sometimes you want a more straight villain, someone to be hated for their evil. Maybe the likable villain used to fill that role, but since they Took a Level in Kindness that role needs filling. Perhaps there needs to be a worse villain for the nicer villain to have a plausible Enemy Mine situation with the hero, or have a Heel–Face Turn to oppose them. The darker shade of black contrasts the nicer by lacking their nobler intentions, standards, attachments and geniality. If the likable villain isn't a Knight of Cerebus, this villain might be. That, and/or they function as a Hate Sink, though sometimes they can take the role of being enjoyed for their heinousness in a way the nicer villain can not. Usually they're an even eviller counterpart, Foil or even Contrasting Sequel Antagonist to the honorable villain to make the point clear. Expect them to provoke Even Evil Has Standards from the other villains. This gets exaggerated if the previous villain was harmless, while the new one is a Complete Monster, and it may overlap with Vile Villain, Saccharine Show as well.

Not the same as Eviler than Thou, which is when one villain demonstrates their superiority over another villain, usually to prove they're more of a threat. Here, the new villain is shown to be more _evil_ to another villain without any sort of rivalry involved. If there _is_ a rivalry involved, then it will likely lead to Make Way for the New Villains, with the old one suffering from The Worf Effect to establish the danger of the new threat. It may also show that Villainous Ethics Decay is in effect.

The "Oblivion" in Evil Versus Oblivion often fill this role, but that doesn't mean they have to eviler than the "Evil". A Woobie, Destroyer of Worlds is easily more sympathetic than a bumbling Card-Carrying Villain, but they're also likely to be more threatening in terms of strength and conviction, making them worse by default. The polar opposite of A Lighter Shade of Black, where a villain is better than another, and, like that trope, it's often used to determine who should be rooted for or against in Evil Versus Evil situations.

May lead to an Enemy Mine situations (where the previous villain has to team-up The Hero to finish this menace and come back to the previous status quo) or a Hero, Rival, Baddie Team-Up (where The Rival is also summed to the team to defeat this menace), both alliances made temporarily and _teeth-clenched_. When there's a truly heroic figure to compare, it's The Good, the Bad, and the Evil. Related to Sorting Algorithm of Evil, More Hateable Minor Villain, and particularly Sliding Scale of Antagonist Vileness - the new villain has to be less sympathetic on that scale than the older one. Compare Sympathetic Villain, Despicable Villain if the Viler New Villain is irredeemably evil and the older becomes intentionally sympathetic.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   _Akame ga Kill!_: The Jaegars serve The Empire, but even the worst of them have a strict moral code, don't indiscriminately kill citizens of the Empire unless they believe they're part of La Résistance. Later on the Wild Hunt is introduced as secondary enforcers of the Empire, who serve to make the Jaegars look good by comparison by being hired psychopaths who will kill and rape innocent citizens out of sadism, and have no care for each other's well-being compared to the genuine sense of camaraderie the Jaegars have for each other. They're so vile Night Raid and the Jaegars team up against them.
-   _Dandadan_ has the Kur/Space Globalists to the Serpoians. Unlike the Serpoians, who are all male and require females of other species to provide needed genetic diversity. the Kur have no need to prey on other species, they just want fodder for their weaponry and openly consider it there's by right. And while the Serpoians seem to be planning an invasion of some unknown scale, the Kur are primed for total war against the Earth. Their strategies enphasize this contrast: the Serpoians operate in small cells and study Earth's supernatural phenomena while the Kur have an entire armada set to wage war against the planet, though despite being able to get to Earth in spite of the heroes' efforts, said armada was no match for a single supernatural entity, which the Serpoians determined was the very reason aliens were not able to invade Earth.
-   _Dr. STONE_: First villain Tsukasa was a Well-Intentioned Extremist that wished to keep the Stone World free from scientific advancements in order to prevent war and bloodshed. His Dragon Hyoga had a similar ideal, but with a far stricter "survival of the fittest" mantra, resulting in him allowing Tsukasa's other warriors to die in a poison gas cloud, which Tsukasa would have never done. Then it's revealed he merely went along with Tsukasa so he can find his weakness and kill him, even going after his younger (revived) sister to do so. But even Hyoga is downright charming compared to the next villain, Minister Ibara, the brutal dictator of the Petrification Kingdom who claims his orders came from the island's Master, when in reality he petrified the Master long ago and destroyed his face (effectively killing him). When any of the girls he brings onto his harem discovers this truth, he murders them without a second thought, including his attempt to kill Ginro. Anyone that questions him is petrified, even his closest associates. Made worse in that he's clever too, managing to out-maneuver several of Senku's gambits.
-   _Dragon Ball_ commonly uses this trope in regards to introducing new villains.
    -   In the Red Ribbon Army arc, General Blue (already this trope compared to Colonel Silver and General White) was a formidable opponent who very nearly got to kill Krillin and proved to be the first personally severe obstacle to overcome. He's usurped by Tao Pai-Pai, who kills him _with his tongue_ and then proceeds to kill Bora and then hand Goku a defeat. From a larger perspective, the Red Ribbon Army as a whole serve as a more dramatic and hate-able military force than the bumbling Pilaf Gang.
    -   The eponymous Piccolo Daimao from the King Piccolo arc is easily the biggest jump, as he's much more formidable and callous than the Red Ribbon Army or Tao Pai-Pai, being the embodiment of evil. This jump is strongly contrasted as he spends the first half of this arc paired with the goofy Pilaf Gang. Daimao was notably the first villain to actually achieve his plan (restore his youth and take over the world), and in short order at that.
    -   In the Namek arc, Frieza serves as this role to previous Arc Villain Vegeta. While Vegeta is just as interested in conquering the galaxy as Frieza, he has a warrior's pride and is willing to work with the heroes against a common threat. Frieza is an even larger scale villain than Vegeta was, and is shown to be far more sadistic and cutthroat. And while Vegeta has Villainous Valor, Frieza is ultimately a coward that tries to kill Goku behind his back even after Goku saved his life.
    -   Cell ends up being the final antagonist in the Android arc after Android 17 and 18. Like them, he's a killer android, but while they are delinquents who only plan to kill Goku, Cell is a homicidal android that drains the life of thousands of people with cruel glee, and after becoming perfect wants to kill everyone so he can watch their faces contort in terror. While the twins end up having a Heel–Face Turn, Cell rejects any desire to stop his villainy and dies evil through and through.
    -   Interestingly, the Majin Buu introduced at the start of the Majin Buu arc is a villain that causes random destruction and turns people into candy, however there is a large amount of levity to his actions because of his comical personality, and only does bad things because he doesn't know they're evil. After he has a Heel–Face Turn, a new Arc Villain is introduced in his Superpowered Evil Side Super Buu, who's intentionally cruel and sadistic. He, in turn, is replaced by Kid Buu, who's animalistic and a completely insane force of evil in contrast to "Fat Buu".
-   In _Fairy Tail_, Zeref was built up throughout the first half of the series as the ultimate source of evil - a large amount of the main villains were either creations of Zeref, trying to revive Zeref, or using magic that Zeref had left behind. Then it's revealed that he's a Tragic Villain who was cursed for trying to revive his younger brother from the dead. Shortly afterwards, we are introduced to Acnologia, an Ax-Crazy Hate Sink who even Zeref views as a monster.
-   Takemaru from _Inuyasha the Movie: Swords of an Honorable Ruler_ was far from being a good person. He was a cruel samurai and murderer. However, he had only a hatred for Inuyasha, Sesshomaru and their father. The demonic sword So'unga, on the other hand, wanted to destroy the world and flood it with undead.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure_:
    -   In _Stardust Crusaders_, the moment the crusaders encounter Telence T. D'Arby, Daniel's younger brother and the last of the Egypt 9 Glory Gods, they are left in shock that he is _even viler_ than his older brother. Despite having stolen fewer souls than Daniel, Telence traps them within dolls and deliberately keeps them fully aware of their situation and unable to do anything about it. DIO is especially fond of this guy and not only is he the worst of the Glory Gods, he is the most vicious of DIO's goons since J. Geil.
    -   The plot of _Golden Wind_ centers around a bunch of mobsters, who vary in morality. However, among the Boss' Special Unit, Cioccolata is meant to stand out as particularly horrible. While ruthless, most of the guard is motivated by cash and try to avoid harming innocent civilians. Cioccolata, however, is a disturbed sadist and Serial Killer who only joined Passione for the opportunity to torture and murder people, and delights in the mass slaughter of innocent civilians. Everyone in Passione, _even the Boss_ (who's the Big Bad, mind you, and no Anti-Villain himself) considers him repulsively evil.
    -   _Stone Ocean_ takes place in a maximum security prison, filled with rapists, murderers, lowlifes and corrupt officials but no other character stands out in depravity as much as the former leader of a suicide cult, Kenzō. He is an egotistical, sadistic piece of work with a god complex and similarly to Cioccolata, everyone hates Kenzō and refuses to associate with him.
-   _Magi: Labyrinth of Magic_ has as its first antagonists a cruel but completely incompetent conqueror, and later a robber gang and a corrupt and incompetent king. But the opponents who then attack the heroes belong to an organization of black magicians who want to bring the world into chaos and call themselves Al-Thamen.
-   The Zanscare Empire manage to be worse than every previous villainous faction to come before in _Gundam_ (which is no small feat given the mold many are cut out of). While most of the early villainous factions were shown to have plenty of sympathetic, well-intentioned or honorable members in their ranks, Zanscare seems to be almost entirely comprised of Ax-Crazy religious fanatics bent on enacting a total cleansing of Earth. The final stretch of episodes even sees them trying to Mind Rape the entire planet with a Kill Sat powered by innocent women and children. Yeah...
-   _Mobile Suit Gundam SEED_ manages to continuously ratchet up how monstrous the antagonists tend to be. Starting with Rau le Creuset and his elite squadron, it largely plays out as two sides of a war clashing. Things get more complicated in the third act, as the mantle of Big Bad ends up being taken by human supremacist Murata Azrael and PLANT chairman Patrick Zala. Both of them are actually being played for fools by Rau le Creuset, an Omnicidal Maniac who believes that humanity doesn't deserve to exist. He manipulates the ZAFT military directly as a commander, and gives technology to the Earth forces to allow them to use nuclear weapons freely against the colonies.
-   Charles Augustus Milverton, once he finally shows up in _The Phantom of Whitechapel_ arc of the manga _Moriarty the Patriot_. He does everything For the Evulz, and it's notable that Sherlock Holmes _loathes_ him, even though he's quite fond of Villain Protagonist William James Moriarty.
-   In _Muhyo and Roji_, Enchu, the main antagonist of the first saga, as well as his accomplice Rio Kurotori were both sympathetic villains with tragic backstories, while the next arc introduced Corrupt Corporate Executive Goryo and his Jerkass sidekick Ebisu, who were thoroughly unsympathetic. After Muhyo and Roji reunite, the next villain they face, Tomas, is one of the most despicable characters in the series, while Goryo and Ebisu (who are forced to accept Muhyo's help against their common enemy) become somewhat more sympathetic, partially by comparison.
-   In _One Piece_, Hody Jones acts as a follow-up to Arlong. And while Arlong was already unsympathetic, Hody Jones is far worse. While Arlong cared for his fellow fishmen and would not harm them even if they disappointed him, Hody Jones is more than willing to do just that, even killing the fishmen's beloved queen because she wanted to bury the hatchet with humanity. Arlong was content with humanity bending the knee and offering tribute, but Hody Jones was after humanity's total destruction. And while Arlong had the justification of experiencing the Fantastic Racism levelled against fishmen by humans firsthand, humanity never did anything to Hody Jones personally and he doesn't even know if their Fantastic Racism still exists.
-   The first parasites from _Parasyte_ just want to eat humans, and actually have no sadistic pleasure in killing them. They even compare the eating of humans with the consumption of pigs and cows. But then Gotou, a particularly powerful parasite, is the new enemy, and he's crazy about killing as many humans as possible.
    -   After Gotou is finally dealt with and the parasites have gone into hiding, the final antagonist of the series is actually the revolting but _human_ Serial Killer Uragami, a cannibalistic and necrophiliac sociopath who butchers and dismembers people for fun. While he's not even a _fraction_ as much of a threat as Gotou was (being only an ordinary human Psycho Knife Nut), he served to drive home the theme that Humans Are the Real Monsters, as even Gotou was driven by an irresistible instinct to kill humans, while Uragami just enjoys it, and he still comes _dangerously_ close to killing Shinichi's girlfriend Satomi. The most disgusting character in the entire series, Uragami is a complete Hate Sink.
-   _Pokémon: The Series_: Cassidy and Butch serve as this and Eviler than Thou rivals to Jessie, James and Meowth. Both are Pokemon thieves working for Team Rocket, but Jessie and James are shown to care for their own Pokemon, work with or even sympathize with the heroes and have other likable traits. Cassidy and Butch, by contrast, lack any Affably Evil traits and don't show any care for their Pokemon.
-   _Project A-Ko: Uncivil Wars_: In contrast to the villains of the main series, who were all comical and caused harm as a result of misunderstandings or incompetence, the Space Pirates are an Apocalypse Cult seeking the destruction of all existence so their leader, Lady Xena, may remake everything in her own image. And while the mooks are stupid, the leaders are played seriously, with Xena in particular being a depraved, Ax-Crazy maniac and Godhood Seeker who blows up fleets, planets, and an entire galaxy onscreen while reveling in their deaths.
-   _The Promised Neverland_ had Isabella as its first Arc Villain. By the end of the arc she was shown to have been like the main characters when she was their age; she attempted to escape from the farms they grew up on, but gave up after seeing the giant gap outside the surrounding wall. After that, she simply devoted herself to living as long as she could and thought of herself as giving the children she watched the happiest life possible before their deaths. The first Arc Villain encountered after the children escape is Lord Bayon, one of the nobility among the demons who eat humans. Finding human meat prepared from farms to be tasteless, Bayon had children shipped to his home so he could relive the thrill of when he hunted humans. As his food was much more tasteful when he killed it himself, he had his hunts in increasing numbers, while inviting other nobles to join in the hunts as well.
-   _Sonic X_: As bad as Dr. Eggman could get, he wasn't a sadist, was Affably Evil, and wanted to conquer the world, not destroy it. Dark Oak, the Big Bad of the third season, is a genocidal monster who's destroyed multiple planets by stealing their Planet Eggs, plotted to wipe out all non-plant life forms in the galaxy, and decides to destroy the entire galaxy in his final moments rather than let Sonic and Shadow win.
-   _Sword Art Online_: Akihiko Kayaba was no saint, but he had his own moral code and stuck to it to the end. The Fairy Dance arc brings in Nobuyuki Sugou, who has none of Kayaba's Affably Evil traits and is just an amoral, greedy, perverted Jerkass who commits such horrifying atrocities as trapping 300 SAO survivors for the sake of performing mind control experiments, trying to rape Asuna while making Kirito watch, and then trying to kill Kazuto IRL. And while Kayaba had Villainous Valour, was a good fighter even without admin privileges, and ultimately took his defeat well, Sugou is a Dirty Coward who knows he doesn't stand a chance against Kirito without Game Master powers and wimps out when the tables turn on him.

    Comic Books 

-   _Fantastic Four_: The team's archnemesis Doctor Doom is regarded as the Most Dangerous Man On Earth, being both an Omnidisciplinary Scientist and versed in Functional Magic. Doom rules the small Balkan nation of Latveria as absolute monarch. That is, until he was snared by the Puppetmaster, leaving his nation bereft of a leader. Exiled Prince Zorba appears, and claims the Latverian throne. Zorba then slowly devolves into a petty tyrant, turning Latveria from the crown jewel of Europe into a jackboot hellhole. The Fantastic Four actually help Doom regain the throne rather than let decent people suffer Zorba's tyranny.
-   _Green Lantern_: The second Mongul ended up getting this treatment upon his Rogues' Gallery Transplant and attempted coup of the Sinestro Corps. While Sinestro is a fascist alien who enforces his will with fear, he still believes he's a force for good and order, and cares for his daughter. By contrast, Mongul merrily runs whatever he conquers into the ground and punched off the head of his own sister because she was a "weakness". Sinestro also carries a certain charisma and properly leads the Sinestro Corps, while Mongul is a Jerkass who kills anyone that remotely questions him, and his faction only follows him because they fear for their lives.
-   In the modern _Joker_ comics he has a new girlfriend named Punchline, due to Harley Quinn leaving him for good as well as pretty much being an Anti-Hero by this point, whereas Punchline is more of a Card-Carrying Villain.
-   _Spawn_: With the Redeemer being an anti-villain with him eventually becoming an ally of Spawn and a member of the Scorched. The Forsaken aka Dark Redeemer takes over his old role being the first Redeemer but more Aggressive and vengeful than the other Redeemers.
-   _Spider-Man_:
    -   WhileVenomwas introduced as a villain, he became more popular as an Anti-Hero. This led to the creation of Carnage to serve as his truly evil counterpart; while Eddie Brock was antagonistic to Spider-Man out of Irrational Hatred, Cletus Kasady was a convicted Serial Killer who used the Carnage symbiote to kill people for fun, often leading to an Enemy Mine situation with Spidey and Venom against him. During the majority of the 2000s, the Mac Gargan version of Venom usurped this status, and Carnage was temporarily killed off.
    -   While Carnage is by far the more popular Viler New Villain with regards to Spider-Man's Rogues Gallery, Stegron was this to the Lizard long before Carnage became this to Venom, being a reptilian supervillain to Spider-Man like the Lizard who was inspired by Curt Connors to transform himself into Stegron but possesses much less humanizing qualities, is seen much less in his human form, doesn't have a family, and whatever small sympathetic traits he has are played up much less compared to Curt Connors' good qualities.
-   _Superman_: Brainiac functions like this with the Man of Steel's other Arch-Enemy Lex Luthor. Both are evil geniuses, however, Luthor has always been given humanizing elements like believing that he's bettering humanity, standards, loved ones, or affability. Brainiac, by contrast, has almost always been written as a completely inhuman foe (literally and figuratively) who destroys civilizations just to keep their knowledge to himself. While Luthor and Brainiac have teamed up on numerous occasions, Luthor is usually uneasy about it.
-   _X-men_: Magneto's slow reformation under Chris Claremont meant that they needed another potential archenemy for the team. As such, Louise and Walter Simonson created Apocalypse. He was designed around Darwinian principles and without any of Magneto's redeeming qualities.

    Films —Animation 

-   The _Toy Story_ franchise has Lots-o'-Huggin Bear be portrayed as being far more evil than any of the other villains in the franchise, who are either antagonistic humans who have no idea that the toys are sentient or antagonistic toys who are portrayed in a more sympathetic light.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _The Dark Knight Trilogy_: Ra's Al-Ghul is the Big Bad in _Batman Begins_, but he's is a Well-Intentioned Extremist and respects Bruce Wayne despite the latter opposing him as Batman. After Ra's Al-Ghul's defeat, a clown-themed villain named The Joker shows up to fill the vacancy in _The Dark Knight_. Unlike Ra's, the Joker is a Card-Carrying Villain who plunges Gotham into chaos For the Evulz and only sees Batman as an amusing challenge.
-   _DC Extended Universe_: _Man of Steel_ had General Zod, a warmongering alien that would decimate all life on Earth, but ultimately he just wanted to restore his destroyed world. _Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice_ had Lex Luthor, whose motives aren't nearly as understandable. Luthor goes out of his way to antagonize and defame Superman so that not only would the public turn against him, but someone like Batman would try to kill him. Unlike Zod, Luthor doesn't give a damn how many of his own people will be slaughtered in the process.
-   In Kenneth Branagh's series of movie adaptations based on Agatha Christie's Poirot novels, the murder culprits thus far get steadily more heinous with each new film. The _Murder on the Orient Express_ culprits are portrayed as sympathetic anti-villains whom never actually kill anyone aside from their intended target (who was much worse than them even when they're at their lowest), and Poirot is ultimately convinced to let them go. The culprits in _Death on the Nile_ are more greedy and selfish in their motivations, and willing to murder people who were in the wrong place at the wrong time, but they deeply love each-other. Then _A Haunting in Venice_ features a culprit who murders people on flimsier suspicions that they _might_ be onto the truth, and who committed filicide (albeit accidentally) because they'd been poisoning their own child just to prevent them escaping.
-   _Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom_: Eli Mills is one of the single most despicable characters across all the movies. He's a ruthless sociopath motivated purely by his own monetary gain, he has none of Peter Ludlow's standards or Unintentionally Sympathetic qualities nor any of Hoskins' dog-petting moments, his goals are arguably more materialistic than the For Science! motivations of Dr. Wu, and he crosses all sorts of lines that neither the aforementioned antagonists nor Nedry crossed (directly murdering his long-time elderly employer, planning to abduct and experiment on a cloned little girl, selling captured dinosaurs not to a new park on the mainland nor even to the official military but to literally any black marketeers who had dough).
-   _Marvel Cinematic Universe:_ The villain for the Infinity Saga, Thanos, is wiling to commit multiple genocide to achieve his goals, but believes in part it's for a good but hideous reason, and is capable of some twisted form of love. The Arc Villain replacing him, Kang, doesn't, and his introductory film establishes he's annihilated entire worlds, entire _universes_ without even the slightest shred of remorse, simply the rush of doing so.
-   MonsterVerse: The first movie introduces the MUTOs, destructive Non-Malicious Monsters who only want to live out their natural life cycle and are indifferent towards the humans and cities around them (until said humans destroy the female's nest). Next, _Kong: Skull Island_ introduces the Skullcrawlers, who are hyper-aggressive carnivores driven by an extreme metabolism and at times appear to enjoy hunting their prey. Then _Godzilla: King of the Monsters (2019)_ introduces King Ghidorah, an intelligent and genuinely evil alien kaiju who goes out of his way to kill as many humans as possible and is actively seeking the destruction of Earth's natural order.
    -   This trope also somewhat applies to the human antagonists. In _Skull Island_, Preston Packard is an unstable war veteran with rather sympathetic circumstances, who's driven insane by losing his men one by one to the kaiju. _King of the Monsters_ introduces Alan Jonah, a cold-blooded killer and misanthrope Eco-Terrorist, who proves to be a Not-So-Well-Intentioned Extremist when he doesn't care that Ghidorah threatens all life on Earth so long as it makes humanity suffer.
-   _Saw_: While he's not necessarily introduced as such, Hoffman is progressively shown to be a much more immoral and dangerous Big Bad than the original Jigsaw, as well as later killers and copycats, being one of the very few who directly murders people without using death traps. He eventually becomes an absolute sociopath with his Villainous Breakdown throughout _Saw 3D_.
-   The movie version of _Sometimes They Come Back_ shows three murderers who become undead and haunt those who killed them then. The three murderers in the sequel, on the other hand, have become demons, and they are much more cruel and sadistic than those from the prequel.
-   Vulture from _Spider-Man: Homecoming_ was a black-market arms dealer, but cared for his men and tried to limit innocent casualties as much as he can, even offering Peter an opportunity to back out with no strings attached, and even protects Peter's identity from known criminals. Mysterio from _Spider-Man: Far From Home_ initially presented himself as The Cape, but is soon revealed to be a Fake Ultimate Hero with implied casualties in his drone attacks numbering thousands, doesn't care about his team more than their skillset, and brutally Mind Rapes Peter after his true colors come to light, despite liking the kid earlier. Even when Peter eventually defeats him, Mysterio manages to get the last laugh by _publicly framing Spider-Man behind the London attacks as well as his murder and then **exposing his Secret Identity** for the world to see_.
-   _Star Wars_: Darth Vader was initially introduced as a straight villain, but as the original trilogy progressed he was revealed to be a Tragic Villain who deeply cared for his son Luke and wanted to rule the galaxy together. To make his eventual redemption and fall seem more understandable, Emperor Palpatine was introduced as an unambiguously evil figure who turned Vader evil in the first place and for Vader to ultimately strike down as part of his break from the Dark Side. While Darth Vader would be characterized as an Anti-Villain and Fallen Hero who hated what he'd become and his Start of Darkness would be shown in the prequels, Palpatine would be written as lacking any redeeming qualities, and having no tragic past or good reason why he became who he was asides from sheer power-lust and sheer delight in being evil. It happens again in _The Rise of Skywalker_ as he hijacks the First Order from Kylo Ren, setting up the latter for a Heel–Face Turn.
-   _Transformers: Rise of the Beasts_: The Decepticons Shatter and Dropkick in _Bumblebee_ were vicious and cruel, but at least had some sense of camaraderie between them. Scourage of the Terrorcons on the other hand is a psychopath in service of Unicron who takes pleasure in wiping out civilizations for his master while preparing planets for him to feast on, hunting down survivors and making them suffer before killing them.

    Literature 

-   In _Accel World_, Cyan Pile, the villain of the first volume, does a Heel–Face Turn at the end, while Cherry Rook is a Tragic Villain who had been corrupted by the Armor of Catastrophe. Dusk Taker, however, is a truly despicable character who uses blackmail, manipulation and illegal technology to gain the upper hand.
-   _Conan the Barbarian_: Conan will frequently go from administering well-deserved violence unto a reprehensible example of humanity at the start of a story to punching out Cthulhu by the end.
    -   _The Phoenix on the Sword_: The conspirators attempting to assassinate King Conan and usurp his throne are not nice people, but Evil Sorcerer Thoth-Amon and the demon he summons with his Serpent Ring of Set are so nasty a long-dead adversary of Set is forced to give Conan mystical assistance from beyond the grave (the titular Phoenix) to stop them.
    -   _Xuthal of the Dusk_: Thalis is the primary antagonist for much of the story, intending to sacrifice Conan's Girl of the Week to Thog so she can have Conan all to herself. She's eaten (or something) by Thog, leaving Conan to lay the smackdown upon the "god."
    -   _The Vale of Lost Women_: Conan leads his tribe of warriors to slaughter the tribe they'd come to parley with (who Conan knew full well would betray them the first chance they got) to rescue the fair maiden the other tribe had captured. In a panic, said fair maiden flees into the titular Vale, home to a "Demon of the Outer Dark," which Conan sends packing with his trusty sword.
-   _Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?_ had as their first antagonists rather some assholes (and later also asshole victims) who have maltreated Liliruca. The sequel _Sword Oratoria_, on the other hand, had an evil adventurer and contract killer working for a malicious plant monster.
-   _Morganville Vampires_ features the vampire Amelie and her father Bishop. Amelie as leader of the Morganville vampires can be ruthless and perfectly willing to kill people if it means that vampires are able to survive as she feels its for the good of her people. That said she does everything with the best of intentions and is also genuinely friendly and even views the series heroine Claire Danvers as a surrogate daughter of sorts. In contrast her father, Bishop who is introduced later in the series is a ruthless sociopath who would bring about the extinction of all other vampires but him if it meant he got to rule and is far more prone to violence and bloodshed. Every ounce of politeness or apparently kind thought that comes from Bishop is fake.
-   _The Mortal Instruments_:
    -   Valentine Morgenstern was a racist who had despised the humans and downwoldlers, and wanted a world in which there are only shadowhunters. After he was defeated, and Sebastian Morgenstern became the next Big Bad, it turned out that he was much more evil and wanted to turn the whole world into a hotbed of demons.
    -   Fairies are generally considered beautiful, but also vicious. First, only the fairies from Seelie Court are shown, and many of them are really prone to be evil. But the sequel _The Dark Artifices_ shows the Unseelie Court. And the fairies there are even more cruel.
-   Luke from _Percy Jackson and the Olympians_ is an anti-villain who has at least a legitimate reason to rebel against the gods, even if that does not excuse many of his actions. But the sequel _The Heroes of Olympus_ shows Gaia, who is a very powerful and very evil goddess and wants to destroy the world. Even minor villains like Octavian are far more vicious than Luke was.
-   _Overlord (2012)_: Ainz is stuck babysitting a bunch of murderous psychopaths (essentially a bunch of Original Characters created by people in full edgelord phase) united only in their unwavering faith and devotion in Ainz as their Physical God and their hatred of humans. Because Ainz still thinks like a human, he's unaware of their more troublesome quirks like Demiurge running a vast vivisection operation on beastmen or Lupusregina interpreting Ainz's orders to guard a human as "don't kill him yourself", even as he's trying to run a kingdom where different races can live in peace.
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_:
    -   Downplayed with Roose and Ramsay Bolton in _A Song of Ice and Fire_. Roose Bolton is a sociopathic lord that starts as the Token Evil Teammate for House Stark, before betraying them in the Red Wedding. While bad, he tries to promote order. His bastard son Ramsay is a wild sadist who openly tortures and kills people, much to his father's frustration. However, Roose is almost sadistic as his son beneath his Mask of Sanity and opposes Ramsay's naked cruelty because it's bad PR rather than any morality. However he does have one distinct standard above Ramsay, that being even he wouldn't kill his own kin despite how Stupid Evil his bastard is, while Ramsay is heavily implied to have murdered his legitimate half-brother to become Roose's heir.
    -   Balon Greyjoy is far, far from a saint, being an abusive parent to his last living son and a ruler who desires to bring back the old ways of the Ironborn, raping and pillaging as they please. Still, he has certain standards that come with the Ironborn culture, loves his daughter and at least one of his brothers and is generally too incompetent to do too much lasting damage, only indirectly ruining House Stark's chance to win the war. After he is killed off, Euron Greyjoy, his not-so-loved brother, comes into the picture and takes the Seastone Chair. Euron by contrast has no sense of honor, Ironborn or otherwise, no love for anyone and is sadistic for the the sake of sadism. Euron manages to be evil by real-world standards, common Westerosi standards, and even _Ironborn_ standards. This coupled with his extremely high competence as a military leader and politician, and possible use of dark magic make him a much more dangerous, serious and despicable contender for the Throne than Balon ever was.
-   _These Words Are True and Faithful_: Ernie, the Villain Protagonist, has standards but sometimes grants himself a dispensation because he lets his heart (or other body parts) rule him. His affair with Danny, who turns out to be an amoral leech, causes him to reconsider what he's done.
-   _Zodiac_: Aquarius is a Well-Intentioned Extremist who genuinely believed in what he was doing, and didn't even want to do it at first. Which amounts for a lot more when you compare him to Blaze and Aryll.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Breaking Bad_: While Tuco Salamanca always was crazy, he doesn't hold a candle to the meticulous and conniving Gus Fring. By the end of the series, actual neo-Nazis make Jesse's life hell. His protagonist nature blurs the line, but Walter White's slow but certain descent into villainy makes him an example compared to the initial small fries. Even then, the above-mentioned Neo-Nazis pull an Eviler than Thou on him and betray him to such an extent that Walt eventually becomes The Atoner for the remainder of the series.
-   This happened several times in _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_.
    -   Spike started as Big Bad of the second season. But by the standards of vampires, he was not very evil. Although he was a real opponent for Buffy, and killed some humans, Angelus was worse. He showed from the outset a very cruel and sadistic behavior. And he wanted to free a demon that would turn the whole world into hell.
    -   Faith in the third season kills Mr. Trick, the Dragon of the Big Bad. And then she became his new dragon. Among her acts were her sexual assault of Xander, the (indirect) rape of Riley, the kidnapping of Willow, the brutal torture of Wesley, a murder attempt on Angel, and at least four murders (three humans and a benevolent demon, the first of which was really an accident).
    -   Maggie Walsh in the fourth season was just a scientist with evil motives. And she created a monster named Adam, which consisted of the body parts of humans, demons and machines. Adam killed her and became the next _Big Bad_ of the season. However, since he pursued roughly the same plan as Maggie Walsh, it is more a case of creating a more dangerous villain rather than a more vicious villain.
    -   In the sixth season, the new opponents are a trio of supervillains. The three are not very effective as villains, and at least one of them is more of a nuisance than really evil. But after Warren kills Tara, Willow falls into evil magic and trying to destroy the world.
    -   In _Angel_, this is discussed as the heroes fight a powerful demon they call _The Beast_. They want to get Angelus to give them information on how to fight this demon. But some of the heroes are against it, arguing that Angelus could be far more dangerous than this demon.
    -   Angelus's explanation of who the Beast is also involves explaining that there is a Viler New Villain who the Beast was serving; the Beast looked like he was acting on his own, but Angelus explained that he isn't smart enough or mighty enough to be operating without a man behind the man: a Master who has stronger ambitions even though she has a lot of utopian justifications. In turn, the Beast's sheer destructiveness against Wolfram and Hart makes him look like an "enemy of the heroes' enemies" who is really more evil than they are.
-   The three Weird Sisters from _Chilling Adventures of Sabrina_ are really assholes. But even during the first season shows that Father Blackwood is much more malicious. And at the end of the plot, they even have to fight the devil.
-   _Game of Thrones_: The Night King serves as this in contrast to the rest of the various lords squabbling for power. While many of these lords and nobles are bad people, they're still human beings with relatable or reasonable reasons for what they do. The Night King, by contrast, is a literally inhuman force of nature than only wants to wipe out every living thing, and has zero interest in any of the politics or personal relationships of the rest of Westeros.
-   _Power Rangers_
    -   _Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers_: Rita Repulsa, the Big Bad of the first season, is a comical and petty villaines who always complains about headaches whenever she loses. Her superior Lord Zedd, introduced in the second season, is shown to be completely devoid of comical qualities and exudes an aura of fear towards his subordinates. Zordon sees his arrival as reason enough to supply the Rangers with new Zords. Lord Zedd was apparently so scary, that Moral Guardians demanded him to be toned down.
    -   _Power Rangers Dino Fury:_ The Big Bad of the first season is Void Knight, who has a mysterious history but uses the Sporix to try and revive his comatose lover. The second season reveals his goal after that is to simply go home with her. In the second season, he shows he has _some_ standards (and additionally a few moments of being The Comically Serious), just as Void Queen steps onto the stage, and demonstrates she has _no_ standards, wanting to get revenge on all of humanity, even destroying a chance to leave, and blasting Void Knight when he objects, eventually brainwashing and mutating him into a monster out of spite.
-   _Primeval_:
    -   Played straight from Season 1 to Season 2. In the first season, Helen just wants to find an Anomaly to the future so she can explore it for herself, and the worst she does in pursuit of that goal is manipulating Cutter and the team into expending their troops and resources to serve her own ends. Oliver Leek from the next season is listed as a Complete Monster on this wiki for a reason: his entire motivations are power-hunger and ego, he's willing to use captured creatures to commit mass terrorism, and he also attempts to have Cutter's team fed to a Smilodon while Cutter helplessly watches just for kicks.
    -   After Leek, however, this become a Zig-Zagging Trope. In Season 3, Helen, though far more dangerous and more of a threat than before, is ultimately motivated to stop mankind from unleashing an extinction-level apocalypse, even if she decides she can take the same opportunity to prevent mankind from existing altogether so that the world's other life can develop without suffering humanity's shortcomings, and she implies that she's willing to die if it'll achieve her ends. In Season 4, Ethan/Patrick is a deranged, gleeful murderer who doesn't seem to have any more idea of what he wants than the writers do and doesn't really have any higher plan, but he _does_ have a fairly compelling excuse for growing into such a psycho, and he still has something resembling a heart when it came to Charlotte. Philip Burton in the last two seasons, though he can be dangerously petty, egomaniacal, overly manipulative and ruthless in his own right, is arguably the least violent of all the seasonal antagonists: he wants to use the Anomalies to solve the worldwide energy crisis with completely-green energy which he supposedly intended to give away for free, he arguably never breaks the law outright in pursuit of his goals, and he sacrifices himself to try and amend his mistake upon realizing what he's done.
-   _Psych_: The Season 3 finale introduces us to Mr. Yang, a serial killer who is only active when a worthy opponent shows up. However, the worst thing she does in the episode is kidnap Shawn's mother and strap a bomb to her. Yang's later appearances portray her as Affably Evil nutcase who genuinely likes Shawn. In the Season 4 finale, the Psych gang face off against her mentor Mr. Yin, a genuinely evil sociopath who commits murders, attempts to kill Jules and Abigail (and Gus in Season 5), and views Yang as nothing more than a tool.
-   _Star Trek_:
    -   _Star Trek: The Next Generation_ gave audiences the Borg. The Klingons and the Romulans, were interested in conquest and territory and were shown to have members who could be reasonable in deals with The Federation. The Borg were completely different and would settle for nothing less than the complete subjugation of the Federation and all other life.
    -   _Star Trek: Deep Space Nine_ introduced the Dominion. Before they showed up, the show's main villains were believed to be the Cardassians. The Cardassians were militaristic space fascists but it was made clear that not all of them were like that. This was not the case with Dominion. Its leaders, the Changelings, were a race of smug, egotistical racists who believe themselves to be the pinnacle of creation and that they were imposing order through their aggressive imperialism. Any race deemed too difficult to conquer or simply managed to anger the Changelings, they exterminate. Telling we did see some Borg in _The Next Generation_ who when separated from the Borg Collective could chose to be good. Outside of Odo in the show's main cast, every mature Changeling in the series was evil.
    -   Among the races in the Dominion, the Changelings also prove to be this to their Jem'Hadar soldiers, who serve as the first contact with the Dominion. The Jem'Hadar are a race soldiers who fanatically fight and die for the Changelings. But the entire reason the Jem'Hadar live for war is because the Changelings genetically engineered them as such, as well to need special drugs to survive. The Jem'Hadar are Always Chaotic Evil but the Changelings made them as such, while Changelings chose evil.
-   In the first season of _Stranger Things_, the primary threat from the Upside Down is the Demogorgon, a Monstrous Humanoid that has a taste for human flesh. While it kills a fair amount of people, it's ultimately a Non-Malicious Monster driven by hunger. Season 2 introduces the Mind Flayer, an Eldritch Abomination that has a twisted intelligence, and possesses Will Byers, leading to the death of many people, including Bob. It's far more malicious and intelligent then the animalistic Demogorgon (who is revealed to be its minion). It gets even worse in Season 3, where it "flays" multiple people to create a body. In Season 4 we find out the Mind Flayer was an extension of the true Big Bad Vecna/One. Formerly known as Henry Creel, One was a child that inexplicably developed psychic powers. Deeply misanthropic, One decided to use his powers to cause as much pain and death as possible for reasons that made sense only to himself.
-   _Super Sentai_:
    -   The Vader Clan in _Denshi Sentai Denziman_ are planet-ravaging marauders, but they're all Likable Villains and their leader, Queen Hedrian, is a Benevolent Boss. Enter Demon King Banriki, a self-centered brutish jerkass who spends most of his time snarking at others and drinking. It's safe to say no one in the audience was weeping when Banriki went down.
    -   Guirail _Denji Sentai Megaranger_ joins the villains halfway through the series. He likes to employ underhanded methods to get the job done, which includes taking little children as a hostage to even using his own allies as a Human Shield. Because of this, even the other villains hate him to the point of betraying him.
    -   The Three Pollution Ministers in _Engine Sentai Go-onger_ are pretty friendly for a band of evil robots. They treat their minions well and care for one another. When their boss Yogoshimacritein comes in however, he's shown to be a brutal tyrant who abuses his minions and views them as disposable, darkening the tone of the show significantly.
    -   Despite being an invasion commander of the Zangyack Empire, Warz Gill in _Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger_ is a pompous buffoon who's more often than not played for comedy. His father, The Emperor, on the other hand is competent and utterly merciless, with his arrival marking the point where the stakes get significantly higher.
    -   Parodied in _Hikonin Sentai Akibaranger_ with Delu-Knight. Compared to the comical villains preceeding him, Delu-Knight is a more serious antagonist. Nobuo Akagi lampshades this by proclaiming the show is Retooling itself.
-   _The Walking Dead (2010)_: Negan is introduced to make Dwight more sympathetic and set him up for a Heel–Face Turn starting in the back half of Season 7.

    Video Games 

-   _Bayonetta 3_: The Greater-Scope Villain of the original game and the Big Bad of its second is Loptr, an order-obsessed wicked god who instigates the bloody Witch Hunts, corrupts the noble Masked Lumen into becoming the tyrannical Father Balder and seeks to rule over the world as its sole god. But come _Bayonetta 3_, Singularity, an _Artificial Human created from an artificial body parts plant_, took it way further by blowing up more than **two thousand universes** (through killing their Arch-Eves, usually a Bayonetta) and merging them into one singularity where he rules over. Loptr might be an egostical tyrant of a god, but he's not an Ax-Crazy Serial Killer wiping out life on an omniversal scale.
-   _Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped_ brought two in the form of Uka Uka and N Tropy, who entered just as the series' Big Bad, Dr Neo Cortex, was starting to become pitiful in his failed attempts at world domination. Uka Uka was the Man Behind the Man, an evil and intimidating elder mask whose defining characteristic is his nasty wrathful temper to enemies and surbodinates alike. N Tropy started off a milder case, being a less Affably Evil Replacement Flat Character for Cortex, though in _Crash Bandicoot 4: It's About Time_, he reveals his truly malicious side, betraying not just Cortex but even Uka Uka in his plans to erase the entire timeline to suit his God complex. He even doubles on this trope by bringing in _another_ viler villain; an alternate universe version of himself that has actually succeeded in killing their own Crash and Coco.
-   _Galactic Civilizations 2_: The Drengin Empire are a Card-Carrying Villain species who believe other species are only good for enslavement or Human Resources. Dark Avatar introduces the Absolute Xenophobe Korath Clan, which split off from the Empire to pursue its goal of exterminating all alien life.
-   In _Grand Theft Auto Online_, Avon Hertz in the _Doomsday Heist_ scenario turns out to be one, being a Corrupt Corporate Executive with his even more Omnicidal Maniac aims, backstabbing the player and his ally while using his Clone Army and robots to plot a genocide on the human race. While there are villains which are just as powerful and dangerous as him (even the preceding Devin Weston and Steve Haines who were the Big Bad Duumvirate in the main game), none of them have the genocidal intentions as him.
-   In the original _Half-Life_ campaign the Marines are portrayed as evil despite also being enemies of the Xen aliens. In _Opposing Force_ you play as one of the Marines, who are humanized a lot more than before and shown to mostly be Punch-Clock Villains _at worst_ (granted Shepard's squad crashed above the facility before they got the liquidate the scientists order so his team's remnants are the most well intentioned among the Marines, especially Shepard as he missed out on day 1's massacres due to being unconscious). As the creators still wanted an evil human faction for Shepard and the Marines to fight, they added the Black Ops (the vanilla game had one squad, presumably an advance guard), who are statistically the same as the NPC Marines from the first game, but are portrayed as a lot more inhuman and scary, as they all wear black from head to toe, including face masks, and hardly ever talk (and when they do, it's invariably about some evil plan such as how they plan to nuke Black Mesa to silence everyone after the marines failed to contain the aliens.
-   _Knights of the Old Republic_: Implied in the case of Revan. Malak is genuinely unhinged and veers close to Stupid Evil, as compared to Revan's brand of Pragmatic Villainy. So even many of the Sith characters you encounter would rather have Revan kick their former apprentice off the throne and take charge of the Sith again. When the backstory is read, it makes more sense. Revan and Malak became Sith after a Mind Rape and while Revan was lucky enough to catch a case of Laser-Guided Amnesia and return to the light, Malak became more and more unhinged.
-   _Kirby and the Forgotten Land_ features Specimen ID-F86, better known as Fecto Forgo, by far one of the cruelest villains in the otherwise fluffy _Kirby_ franchise alongside the _Kirby: Right Back at Ya!_ version of Nightmare. Most prior villains were Affably Evil and/or Punch-Clock Villains, were Anti-Villains with noble traits and goals that were the only things making them evil, had tragic backstories that drove them to villainy and/or insanity, were simply possessed and/or brainwashed into doing things out of character and/or against their own will, were simply Made of Evil, or were simply Generic Doomsday Villains. Forgo, on the other hand, is a despicable monster that delights in ruining the lives of others just because they can, tried to subjugate the new world and its ecosystems, enslaves hundreds of cute and innocent Waddle Dees, brainwashes the Beast Pack and King Dedede into carrying out their evil deeds as their puppets, assimilates several members including their leader Leongar, and tries to make Planet Popstar and the Forgotten Land collide with each other and kill everybody in both worlds just because of a petty grudge against Kirby. In the postgame, Forgo even shatters Leon's soul and possesses him in their attempt to keep themselves alive.
-   The _Mary Skelter_ series has Yuto Gato, the main antagonist of _Finale_. Snark in _Nightmares_, while definitely cruel, was a Well-Intentioned Extremist who wanted to recreate his homeworld. The Mysterious Nightmare in the second game, despite being a grave threat to everyone, is a Tragic Monster who transformed and went on a rampage after apparently losing the boy she loved. Both of them also had someone they still cared about deeply that played a role in their motives (Snark had his missing wife, while the Mysterious Nightmare had Jack). Gato, on the other hand, is an Omnicidal Maniac who wants to destroy the world because of his Fantastic Racism towards anything that isn't human and anyone sympathetic to them, has none of the sympathetic and redeeming qualities of the previous antagonists, is completely indiscriminate in the lives he ruins, and has absolutely no one he cares about, even going so far as to kill his only remaining family because she isn't human and called him brother.
-   The _Mega Man Zero_ series features Dr. Weil, the last villain of the series and by far the evilest and most dangerous one in the plot. The previous antagonists all had noble intentions and/or sympathetic backstories. By contrast, Weil isn't sympathetic in any way, and wants to make life a living nightmare for mankind and Reploids alike. Any delving into his backstory only further establishes what a selfish and terrible person he is.
-   While prior _Metroid_ villains were, at least partially or potentially, acting out of their species' natures or only showed their worst in side material, Raven Beak from _Metroid Dread_ has full agency yet is a sociopathic warmonger in contrast to his fellow Chozo, and in-game shows a personality as vile as the series' nastiest. He wiped out the peaceful Chozo intending to destroy the Metroids since he sought to use the Metroids as bioweapons, causing the Metroid threat that kicked off the entire series' central conflict. He only spared fellow Chozo Quiet Robe for his usefulness, only to kill him right as he bonds with Samus. He also had his fellow tribe members executed or sealed away to die from X infection, and spent the whole game manipulating and plotting to kill his "daughter" Samus to enable his galactic conquest. Tellingly, Samus ultimately confronts Raven Beak with a level of rage not even her parents' killer, the previous vilest villain Ridley, managed to earn.
-   _Pokémon_ has a lot of these.
    -   _Pokémon Diamond and Pearl_ has Cyrus, leader of Team Galactic. Prior to him, Giovanni was a ruthless but honorable Noble Demon who simply wanted to Take Over the World, while Archie and Maxie were Well Intentioned Extremists wanting to help the environment in conflicting ways and ended up endangering the world by accident. Cyrus _fully intends to destroy reality_ and remake it In Their Own Image, a world without spirit, which he perceives to be the cause of all conflict.
    -   _Pokémon Legends: Arceus_ has its true antagonist, Volo, an Omnicidal Maniac who wants to recreate the universe in his own image. The only villains who rival him in scope are Cyrus and Lysandre, who both had good intentions to varying degrees, and the only one to rival him in cruelty is Ghetsis, whose Evil Plan doesn't come close in terms of sheer scope.
    -   In regards to malevolent Pokémon, _The Teal Mask_ DLC for _Pokémon Scarlet and Violet_ features the Loyal Three—Okidogi, Munkidori, and Fezandipiti—in contrast to the Raidon in Area Zero. The Raidon was just a hostile, territorial bully at worst. These three, on the other hand, are willful, malicious, and greedy bandits who will hurt and use deception to get what they want. And while the Raidon was directly responsible for the death of the original Sada/Turo, that was mostly implied to have been an accident. But what these three did to Ogerpon's original partner was most definitely _not_ an accident.
    -   Cipher in-general is this to Team Rocket and Team Aqua/Magma. The previous two villainous organizations might be criminals and eco-terrorists, but Cipher takes it further by corrupting Pokémon into killing machines, committing vile and underhanded terrorist acts unparalleled by any other Pokémon villain, and taking over multiple towns and _actually suceeding in it_. Zigzagged in _Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness_, while Cipher is more prone to outright terrorist acts, a large portion of the organization's executive branch are Affably Evil people who are keen for a Heel–Face Turn. Ardos, in the other hand, plays this completely straight when he convinces Greevil to blow up all of Citadark Isle with all of his personnel and the kid protagonist in it so they can rebuild, and he's the only post-game bonus boss who delivers a death threat rather than a word of congratulation.
    -   The villain of _Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team_ is Gengar, leader of Team Meanies and a petty Jerkass with ambitions to Take Over the World. He does turn out to pose a genuine threat to the main duo, but in the end his potentially dooming the world was accidental, and he does a Heel–Face Turn of his own volition. The villain of _Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers_ is Darkrai, a Sociopath who creates a Bad Future where time and space are frozen and everyone lives in an eternal nightmare under his puppet regime, and unlike Gengar, he has to lose all his memories before he turns good.
    -   _Pokémon Ranger_:
        -   Gordor, the villain of the first game, simply wanted to discredit and replace the titular Rangers by staging attacks on Fiore. Blake Hall, the second game's villain, wants to place all Pokémon under Mind Control so they can be used as slave labor or war machines for the betterment of humanity.
        -   The third game has Purple Eyes, who is even worse than the above. He starts out kidnapping Rand's wife and daughter, then usurps his superiors, the Societea, to Take Over the World himself- but then he tries to sink the flying fortress into the ocean and wild out everyone in Oblivia, then in the post-game tries to convince Arceus to Kill All Humans.
-   While Edgar Ross and Micah Bell III are the main Hate Sink antagonists of the respective _Red Dead Redemption_ games, Micah is this trope to Edgar. Edgar Ross is a Dirty Cop who, despite his good intentions, uses his lawman job for his personal gain, eventually managed to betray John Marshton and killing him with his army of sieges. Micah in the prequel is The Sociopath Mole who sells out his entire Van der Linde gang to the Pinkerton Detective for his personal gain and even later commit Rape, Pillage, and Burn.
-   _Saints Row_:
    -   _Saints Row IV_: Zinyak, despite being a Man of Wealth and Taste of his Alien Invasion Zin Empire, turns out to be this due to his threats being a planetary scale compared to the previous games' villains, and even managed to wipe the Earth out and reducing the numbers of Third Street Saints members drastically.
    -   Satan in _Saints Row: Gat Out of Hell_ is even more so than Zinyak, being a sadistic tyrant who indulges in seeing the people of Hell suffer.
-   _Senran Kagura_:
    -   The original game, _Portrait of Girls_, has Homura as the villain leading the Hebijo girls in stealing the Suoer-Secret Ninja Scroll from Hanzo Academy, but she is at worst a Nominal Villain just doing her job, does not do anything particularly evil, and treats her minions as true friends. _Crimson Girls_ introduces us to her boss, Dogen- a cruel Diabolical Mastermind who treats the Hebijo students as his expendable pawns to be sacrificed to Orochi when he wants, and a Manipulative Bastard who strings the girls along in his plan to Take Over the World.
    -   Orochi and its fellow yoma, Dogen's partners, are a race of eldritchs made of the suffering of fallen shinobi whom the shinobi are being groomed to kill. Orochi speaks in a scary Voice of the Legion, they all have grotesque designs, and Dogen plans on unleashing them on the world.
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog_:
    -   Eggman has this relationship with his alternate universe counterpart and/or future descendant, Eggman Nega, albeit in a sense that Nega is viler in that he's more _insane_ by comparison. While Eggman is still a Faux Affably Evil villain who wants to Take Over the World, he's pragmatic enough to work with the heroes if something threatens the world, and has a better grasp of how to take a defeat or show respect to his enemies, even if reluctantly. Eggman Nega, by contrast, is deranged, sociopathic, and often delving into Omnicidal Maniac tendencies.
    -   _Sonic Frontiers_ features THE END, who is easily the most heinous and least sympathetic villain in the game, and one of the darkest in the series due to it attempting to destroy everything for seemingly no reason whatsoever; being exceedingly arrogant, boastful, petty, and a Narcissist with a Lack of Empathy; and seemingly going out of its way just to drive species to extinction, to the point where it chases the Ancients to kill the remaining few left after they flee from their planet's destruction. Dr. Eggman is shown to have plenty of sympathetic qualities in _Frontiers_ such as his love for Sage and Sage herself is also an Anti-Villain who wants to keep THE END sealed from Cyberspace due to the damage it'll cause, and holds no ill will towards Sonic and wants a family relationship with Dr. Eggman.

    Visual Novels 

-   In _Ikemen Sengoku_, Kennyo, a once-kind monk who wants revenge on Nobunaga for slaughtering his monk followers, was initially set up as the Big Bad of the game with the first seven routes having the characters join forces at the climax to take him down. Starting with Sasuke's route, however, new and more dangerous characters have taken the villain spotlight away from Kennyo, like the crazed pirate Motonari Mouri who doesn't just want revenge on a single person but on the whole world and the power-hungry Yoshiaki Ashikaga who treats everyone, including his own subordinates, like insects he can squash whenever he wants.
-   _Rose Guns Days_ has four Big Bads for each arc, and of the first three, Crazy Alfred is a standard Starter Villain who only lasts three chapters, Father Caleb is ruthless but honorable and a Well-Intentioned Extremist, and Blue Dragon Wang is a Smug Snake who prefers manipulation to violence and only wants to control the spice trade. Major Gabriel Kaburaya, on the other hand, is a ruthless Knight Templar out to exterminate all criminals in City 23 and actually succeeds in killing off several major characters, something that none of the other villains managed to do, marking him as a far bigger and worse threat to the main characters.

    Web Videos 

-   _Atop the Fourth Wall_: The Entity proves to be this to Lord Vyce. While Vyce is a haughty conqueror of worlds, he is trying to protect the worlds he conquers from the Entity, and while the Entity wishes to consume and assimilate the multiverse. Ultimately, at the end of their lives this trope is _reversed_. The Entity ends up becoming pitiable due to a lack of purpose and bonds with Linkara over its fears before vanishing gracefully, while Vyce breaks down at not being able to accept the Entity is dead, before proceeding to destroy the entire universe out of a mad belief that it'll kill the Entity. In a way, he becomes worse than the Entity, who at least was only doing what came naturally to it.
-   _Oxventure_: The _Dungeons & Dragons_ campaign started with a Big Bad (or closest to one) in M. Channail, an originally oblivious gnome Snake Oil Salesman whose greed is amusing and ends up being overpowered and killed relatively easily and early on, even if he would go from opportunism to outright villainy later. "Spell Check" would introduce Lady Liliana, a Knight of Cerebus with few comedic moments, no redeeming traits whatsoever, and the strength and ambition to Take Over the World.

    Western Animation 

-   _Adventure Time_: The comical Ice King was the closest thing Finn had to a "nemesis" during the beginning of the show, but even before the full extent of his tragic past was revealed, the roots of Ice King's villainy were his loneliness coupled with his rampant insanity which prevented him from realizing his actions were wrong. Then the season two finale introduced The Lich, a sadistic undead abomination who was always played seriously and desired nothing less than the extermination of all life, to be the Big Bad of the rest of the series.
-   _Amphibia_ has every season long antagonist be surpassed in villainy by their successors. Season 1's Arc Villains are Captain Grime, the Toad leader suppressing the frogs in the valley, and Sasha Waybright, a human who becomes Grime's lieutenant as part of a deal to get back to Earth. Sasha is manipulative and doesn't care about hurting the local frogs but she does care about Anne, who's one of her best friends, while Grime is mostly a thug who becomes humanized by his budding friendship with Sasha. Season 2 has them try to launch a coup of Amphibia, but they're quickly dwarfed in threat by King Andrias of Newtopia, who turns out to have been manipulating everyone to resume his ancestors' legacy as Multiversal Conquerors. Season 3 has Andrias's redeeming and tragic qualities slowly brought to light and it's revealed he's only The Dragon corrupted by the series true Big Bad, The Core, a machine that serves as a Mind Hive of all of Amphibia's past leaders, including Andrias's abusive father Aldrich. While Sasha, Grime and Andrias all redeem themselves, the Core and Aldrich remain pure evil tyrants willing to wipe out entire planets to maintain their power.
-   _The Amazing World of Gumball_: Miss Simain was the main antagonist for the first three and a half seasons, and while far from harmless she was ultimately more just a bully than a true villain. When Rob steps up as the true Big Bad he's quickly established as a much darker threat who's willing to commit mass murder just to get revenege on Gumball, who he blames for causing him to become a villain in the first place.
-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender_:
    -   Original Series: Has this in play alongside the Sorting Algorithm of Evil. The first recurring antagonist Prince Zuko is an Anti-Villain with a discernible Freudian Excuse, standards and redeeming qualities. Admiral Zhao, the next recurring villain and an antagonist to Zuko and the Gaang at separate intervals throughout Season 1, is more competent and more willing to cross the Moral Event Horizon. After Zhao is killed in the first season finale, Zuko's sister Princess Azula, who is more competent than Zhao and lacks any of Zuko's redeeming qualities, becomes the main villain and deals the team a crushing blow at the end of Season 2. Season 3 introduces Fire Lord Ozai in a full appearance as he had mainly appeared via flashback beforehand. During the series finale, Azula is revealed to be a Tragic Villain and gets an Alas, Poor Villain while Fire Lord Ozai is perfectly happy to burn the world to ash to conquer it.
    -   The sequel _The Legend of Korra_ also plays this trope. The Red Lotus is made up of terrorists and assassins, but their actions bring Kuvira to power in the fourth season.
-   _Big Hero 6: The Series_: Up till Chief Cruz in the latter half of the second season, all the villains noticeably scaled up in evilness.
    -   Yokai was a Well-Intentioned Extremist motivated by Revenge.
    -   Obake is a Classic Villain who wants to cause an artificial disaster to remake San Fransokyo into a Utopia.
    -   Diane Amara has no qualms with forcibly transforming several people into monsters and mind-controlling them against their will to get what she wants. And even then, it became clear she just started doing it For the Evulz at some point.
    -   If you don't count Chief Cruz but do count Trina, the pattern is kept, considering she literally wanted to _burn everyone in San Fransokyo alive_.
-   Given most _Looney Tunes_ shorts revolved around a Comically Lopsided Rivalry, this trope was often utilised to ensure the audience didn't sympathise _too_ much with the outclassed villain:
    -   The first recurring antagonist for Bugs Bunny is Elmer Fudd, going back to 1941's _Elmer's Pet Rabbit_ (or 1940's _Elmer's Candid Camera_, if you regard this rascally rabbit as Bugs Bunny). Elmer, however, seemed too gullible and undeserving of the Karmic Trickster's abuse, so Friz Freleng created six-gun bandit Yosemite Sam in 1945 to trouble Bugs; a deliberate Jerkass who'd deserve to be bested by Bugs. Of course, Sam fared no better than Elmer, so 1948 saw the debut of Marvin the Martian, who is very calm and soft-spoken by contrast, but wants to cause an Earth-Shattering Kaboom, and then 1953 ushered in the Tasmanian Devil, a Chaotic Neutral whirling dervish with a ravenous appetite.
    -   A particularly odd variation occurred with an established character for the Speedy Gonzales cartoons. Speedy's usual recurrent antagonist was Sylvester the Cat, who could often challenge Elmer in terms of neuroses and pitiful qualities, and seldom challenged Speedy in any capacity. In later Speedy shorts, Daffy Duck took over from Sylvester as his new main antagonist, and without a natural reason to pursue the rodent like Sylvester had, Daffy was often made more outwardly nasty and vindictive to set off feuds, and was often conveyed as at least relatively less pathetic and outclassed against Speedy compared to Sylvester.
-   Pretty much every new villain to appear in _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ is more vile and evil than the last. Nightmare Moon is evil in a cartoonish way and gets a pretty quick redemption, Discord is cruel Reality Warper but also very funny, Queen Chrysalis is a kidnapping power-mad G-rated succubus, King Sombra is a sadistic dictator who seeks to enslave the world, Tirek is a brutal monster bent on stealing all magic for himself and using it to destroy everything around him out of spite, Starlight Glimmer is a power-hungry manipulative cult-leader who uses uncomfortably realistic kidnapping, brainwashing, and borderline torture tactics, the Pony of Shadows is effectively darkness incarnate, and Cozy Glow is a power-hungry Enfant Terrible who could basically be described as "Starlight Glimmer without the redeeming qualities." While some of them eventually get better like Discord and Starlight Glimmer who manage to pull Heel Face Turns thanks to The Power of Friendship, and others get worse like Queen Chrysalis, there's no denying that the writers ratcheted up the villainy with every new Big Bad.
-   _The Owl House_ has Eda's sister Lilith as the Arc Villain of the first season, but she was only an antagonist because she thought forcing Eda to serve the Emperor was the only way to heal Eda's curse. When her master, Emperor Belos, finally appears in the first season finale, he proves to be a genuinely evil tyrant instead of simply misguided like Lilith. Kikimora and the Golden Guard, who were both introduced in the first season, replace Lilith as the Emperor's top enforcers in season two, but neither are as bad as their boss. In the end, Lilith performs a Heel–Face Turn in the first season finale, the Golden Guard turns out to be a sympathetic villain serving the Emperor out of misguided loyalty and also pulls a Heel–Face Turn and Kikimora remains an ineffectual villain sometimes played for laughs. Belos goes on to darken every scene he's in and proves to be the most monstrous of all who came before him with his goal to wipe out all life in the Boiling Isles because he's a human witch hunter who believes all witches and demons are inherently evil.
    -   Averted with The Collector, who is freed from their prison at the end of season two. While they're definitely a more powerful threat than Belos, they are much less evil, possessing Blue-and-Orange Morality.
-   Played for Laughs in _The Ren & Stimpy Show_: Stimpy ends up causing Ren to undergo a Literal Split Personality between his evil side and indifferent side. The Evil Ren ends up splitting himself to create an army, resulting in the creation of _Hideously_ Evil Ren. This even more evil Ren ends up dodging normal Evil Ren's punches and keeps punching him, before going off to live in Unholy Matrimony together.
-   In the early seasons of _She-Ra and the Princesses of Power_ the primary antagonists consisted of Hordak as the Big Bad, Shadow Weaver as The Dragon, and Catra as Adora/She-Ra's friend-turned-nemesis. As the series progresses, each of these characters display humanizing traits (such as the ability to love) and have the tragic circumstances that shaped their bad choices revealed. Then along comes Horde Prime, the Greater-Scope Villain of the series and main villain for the final season, who displays absolutely none of the sympathetic or redeeming traits of the other antagonists. While Hordak spent the series trying to conquer Etheria with his offshoot of the Horde, Horde Prime rules over an intergalactic empire which he maintains by using mind-control chips to assimilate entire populations into his Hive Mind, commits wholesale genocide and planetary destruction when his enemies resist too much, and maintains an army of brainwashed clones of himself which he uses as expendable stock to preserve his immortality and erases their minds if they ever gain a sense of individuality. To put it in perspective, by the time of the series finale Catra, Shadow Weaver and Hordak all redeem themselves in some way, whereas She-Ra personally kills Horde Prime because he's too dangerous and evil to leave alive.
-   _Shimmer and Shine_ introduces the sea enchantress Uzma late in season 4, who's sneakier than Big Bad Zeta and is willing to harm Nazboo to get what she wants, necessitating an Enemy Mine.
-   _Tangled: The Series_ doesn't have any Arc Villains, generally (aside from the third season), but it's still possible to see this in play:
    -   Mother Gothel was just a selfish woman who wanted to have eternal life and was perfectly happy to steal a princess away from her parents if it meant accomplishing that. Her goals did not extend beyond that.
    -   Andrew and the Saporians explicitly seek to _destroy_ Corona and everyone in it.
    -   Cassandra is a self-absorbed traitor who actually tries to murder her former best friend and all her allies multiple times, just to see her suffer, even though (almost) no one in Corona was ever anything but kind to her. Oh, and she actually does destroy all of Corona in the penultimate episode. Then she's supplanted by Zhan Tiri in the last episode, who is essentially everything Cass is, but worse, and has no redeeming qualities whatsoever.
-   _Total Drama_:
    -   Alejandro quickly makes it known that he's going to be the Big Bad of _World Tour_, saying that Heather, the most memorable antagonist of the first two seasons, is a saint compared to him. While the two are equally evil, Alejandro is more successful than Heather ever was, being better at manipulation, having enough charisma to avoid bad press with the rest of the cast, and he believes in Pragmatic Villainy. Heather would usually waste her advantages on petty revenge and mainly avoided elimination thanks to someone else screwing up in a way no one predicted when she'd end up on the chopping block.
    -   Alejandro finds himself on the receiving end during _All-Stars_ when Mal comes out to play. Unlike every other antagonist, Mal less a fellow contestant and more a violent psycho possessing the body of Mike, barely even seeming to realize that he's on reality TV, and causing pain to others for a quick laugh. Alejandro's charisma and blackmail have no effect on Mal, who also happens to have superhuman abilities thanks to subjugating Mike's other personalities, which he quickly uses to force Alejandro into submission.
-   _Wakfu_:
    -   The Season 2 Big Bad Ensemble Qilby and Rushu are this to Nox from the first season. Rushu is a card-carrying Omnicidal Maniac and a dickwad who's arguably only saved from Complete Monster status by how laughable he is. Although Qilby has very compelling reasons for being the way he is, unlike Nox, he just doesn't care about the harm he causes to others and he outright refuses to admit his actions weren't worth it when he's at his lowest and his crimes have turned all his family against him.
    -   Then Season 3 introduces Oropo and Adamaï. Whilst Oropo is on the one hand more redeemable than Qilby as his love for his Brotherhood ultimately stops him from going through with his Evil Plan; on the other hand, his active goal of committing total genocide upon an entire dimension and its inhabitants is far beyond the scope of Nox's Well-Intentioned Extremist goals or Qilby's desire to drain a planet or two for his Krosmoz-cruising needs, and he tries to get under the heroes' skin in ways that the previous Big Bads never did; with his seduction of Amalia partly out of personal envy of Yugo, and him drawing Adamaï into his fold. As for Adamaï... it really can't be overstated how needlessly and nightmarishly vicious he was towards his brother and his former-friends throughout his villainous tenure just because he wanted to see them suffer, and his excuse for his Face–Heel Turn is far more feeble and hypocritical bordering on pathetic than the tragic backstories of Oropo, Qilby and Nox.
-   In _Winx Club_ season 4, the wizards of the Black Circle seem to have changed their ways, only for the Earth fairies to become the new enemies. After they get redeemed, it turns out the wizards just pretended to be nice and pick up their villainous ways becoming the very first characters to permanently kill a main character. Up until season 5, the villains got worse and viler, ending with Tritannus, who was completely irredeemable.
-   When the girls in _W.I.T.C.H._ defeat Phobos, it turns out there was another, arguably worse villain that had been planning out her come-back since the start of the series: Nerissa. This gets reversed by the end, though, with Nerissa being given some humanizing qualities in spite of her remaining irredeemably evil, while Phobos defeats her, regains power, and is as devoid of honorable traits as ever.

___