On the left is the hero of Hyrule's most recent reincarnation. On the right are just three of the _numerous_ Big Bads he's vanquished. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 

**Flynn:** Do you intend to rain down your justice on all the villains of the world? That's the behavior of a common criminal!  
**Yuri:** I recognize it for what it is and I've made my choices. Murder is a crime.  
**Flynn:** And even knowing that, you intend to dirty your hands.  
**Yuri:** Intend to? I already have.

Villains dying in a story is nothing new. When it comes to villains, they're expected to lose, and dying at the hands of any character, whether or not they're The Hero, is common, especially in Darker and Edgier works. However, there are characters in existence that seem to make it a point to kill any villains that come their way. This is the Villain Killer.

This trope does _not_ occur when a hero kills a singular Big Bad and his/her dragon at the end of a single story. This trope is about characters who regularly kill the villains more than other characters in the setting. In order for a character to become this trope, it should be one of the following scenarios:

1.  There are multiple villains, either working together or in a competing Big Bad Ensemble. No matter which one, a single character kills all or most of these villains.
2.  A series of interconnected stories (book and film series) with each story having a different Big Bad and The Dragon, and a single character kills all or the majority of these villains.
3.  A serialized story (comic book and TV series) with different Story Arcs featuring different Arc Villains and/or villainous factions, and a single character kills most of them.
4.  A Villain-Based Horror Franchise has a single Mascot Villain (like _Halloween_) and said mascot is essentially the lead character for the franchise as a whole. If a character successfully kills the Mascot Villain, they are a villain killer. This is the most direct inversion of the Hero Killer.
5.  A character's backstory describes how they were directly responsible for the singlehanded annihilation of numerous villainous factions (e.g. a vigilante character who targets Mexican cartels).

In Lighter and Softer settings where characters have a Thou Shall Not Kill rule, preferring to imprison, disable, or redeem their adversaries, the Villain Killer is the one who defies this rule and executes the villains they come across. In these types of settings, this character is usually treated akin to the Token Evil Teammate.

In Darker and Edgier settings where numerous characters have villain body counts, the Villain Killer is the character with a disproportionately high villain kill count. Everyone's an experienced killer, but the Villain Killer takes it to a new level beyond the other characters.

Sister Trope to Vigilante Man, the main difference between the two is that a Villain Killer need not be motivated by a sense of justice, and a Vigilante Man may not end up actually killing their victims.

Contrast the Hero Killer.

Super-Trope to:

-   Hunter of Monsters: A character who targets supernatural monsters.
-   Nazi Hunter: A character that seeks and sometimes kills Nazis.
-   Serial-Killer Killer: A hunter of serial killers.

## As this is a Death Trope, unmarked spoilers abound. Beware.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   Roy Mustang gains this reputation after killing Lust, and later curbstomps Envy. He’s established as the biggest physical threat to the homunculi.
-   Hajime Nagumo from _Arifureta: From Commonplace to World's Strongest_ always makes a point to always kill his enemies to make sure they don't come after him again, even if said enemies are his old classmates. He blows away Yukitoshi after seeing he was Beyond Redemption, much to the horror of his teacher, and later kills Cattleya, a demon that nearly kills his other classmates, who were equally shocked by his brutality. For context, Hajime was the class' Bully Magnet so his change is very jarring. Whenever they confront him on his actions he simply responds "they were my enemy".
-   Guts of _Berserk_, when it comes to slaying The Legions of Hell as The Berserker Hunter of Monsters very few manga protagonists have a higher body count than him. He's killed 1000s of men, 1000s of demons and at least one Eldritch Abomination with his BFS and plenty of rage, he's even killed ghosts.
-   Saya Otonashi of _Blood+_ has killed all of Diva's chevaliers given that her blood can kill them. In the end, she also kills Diva.
-   The Main Characters of _Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba_, compared to a lot of other contemporary manga and anime heroes kill a truly massive amount of demonic villains over the course of the series as Demon Slayers. Ironically, the Purity Personified, violence-hating, Nice Guy hero Tanjiro Kamado is easily the most prolific demon killer in the series, having killed the Hand Demon, Yahaba, Kyogai, Mother Spider Demon, Hantengu, Enmu (with Inosuke's help), Akaza and finally Muzan (with everyone and the sun's help).
-   _Dragon Ball_:
    -   Son Goku has taken on all manner of enemies from mortal men to alien warlords to horrifying demons. Many if not most have been slain by him with those he doesn't kill either becoming his allies, getting killed by other villains, or just being too weak to necessitate killing. Becomes an Exaggerated Trope in the non-serial movies and canon movies as with the few exceptions of Garlic Junior<sup>*&nbsp;</sup> , Bojack<sup>*&nbsp;</sup> , Broly<sup>*&nbsp;</sup> , Beerus<sup>*&nbsp;</sup>  and Cell Max <sup>*&nbsp;</sup>  all the movie villains are atomized by Goku.
    -   Aside from Goku, Vegeta is the most prolific killer of villains amongst the protagonists, including Nappa, Cui, Dodoria, Zarbon, the Ginyu Force (Aside from Captain Ginyu himself, whom he _would_ have killed), the majority of Freeza's forces, Android 19, and Pui Pui. That said, he was a villain and anti-"hero" most of the time, and he didn't reform completely until near the end of the Buu Saga.
    -   Future Trunks also qualifies. Not only does he kill King Cold and a mechanized Freeza but he also kills his timeline's versions of Android 17, 18, and Cell. _Super_ reveals that Future Trunks also killed his timeline's versions of Babidi and Dabra before they could awaken Majin Buu.
    -   Gohan isn’t too shabby either especially when putting non-canon material in account. He’s killed Banan, Sūi, Cell, Bojack and in _Dragon Ball Z: Fusion Reborn_ Gohan slays Freeza as well. In _Dragon Ball Super: Super Hero_ Gohan kills the Big Bad Cell Max, Cell's successor.
    -   Piccolo has killed Raditz and a Saibaman in the series proper. And in the films he kills Sansho, Wings, several of Dr. Wheelo's Bio-Men, and Cooler's Armoured Squadron consisting of Salza, Dore and Neiz.
-   _Fist of the North Star_:
    -   Kenshiro is the champion of bad-guy slaughtering in the post-apocalyptic hellscape that he lives in. Kenshiro kills vilains at least once per episode/chapter, and he does so in a very gruesome matter. His fighting style of Hokuto Shinken means that a time-delayed death is the norm, to the point that Kenshiro's Catchphrase is "You Are Already Dead" after using one of his moves. However, Kenshiro only resorts to killing bad guys who have participated in unforgivable actions to prove that they won't redeem themselves, which earns him the title of "Savior of Century's End" among the populace.
    -   Rei, who is regarded as The Lancer to Kenshiro, also has a very high body count, slicing his enemies to pieces with his Nanto Suicho Ken. And unlike Kenshiro, Rei doesn't spare his enemies and he's significantly more revenge-driven than Kenshiro, but his sense of honor and justice is on par with Kenshiro's.
    -   Toki, who despite his peaceful nature, is also a practitioner of Hokuto Shinken just like Kenshiro, and thus Toki is also capable of killing enemies by making them explode, but he also gives them a big sensation of pleasure while they're dying a painless death.
-   _Gundam_:
    -   In _Mobile Suit Gundam_, Amuro Rey, the pilot of RX-78-2 Gundam, is responsible for wiping out much of Zeon's forces and killing some of their top pilots such as M'Quve, the Black Tri-Stars and Lalah Sune (the latter is something which Amuro regrets) during the One Year War. His Gundam earns the name "The White Devil" for that reason.
    -   _Mobile Suit Gundam: Iron-Blooded Orphans_: Mikazuki Augus is Tekkadan's Ace Pilot and is responsible for killing several of Gjallarhorn's top officers such as Crank Zent, Carta Issue, and Ein Darlton. In Season 2, he manages to destroy the Mobile Armor from the Calamity War Era which earns the reputation as "a demon" and almost kills Julieta Juris. In fact, his kill count is well known that it took several Dainsliefs to put him down for good in the last episode.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure_:
    -   Jotaro Kujo, in the Parts 1-6 universe, has a high Big Bad body count compared to the other Jojos (with the arguable exception of Joseph his grandfather). He kills DIO in _Part 3_, pretty much finishes off Yoshikage Kira in _Part 4_ and nearly kills Enrico Pucci in _Part 6_. To compare, Jonathan merely incapacitated Dio in _Part 1_, Joseph does kill Wamuu and Esidisi but by his own admission Kars's (mental) death is due to chance in _Part 2_, Giorno only kills Diavolo in _Part 5_ and while a major contribution to Kira and Pucci's defeats, Josuke and Jolyne didn't finish them off, leaving the job to Jotaro and Emporio respectively.
    -   When it comes to dealing with villains overall and not just the Big Bads in the Parts 1-6 universe, Team Bucciarati takes the cake. While the previous teams weren't above killing villains — with Jonathan's group killing almost every enemy on their way in Part 1 —, they were also willing to just knock them out. Team Bucciarati by comparison is far more ruthless, with only Sale and Mario Zucchero being spared, and even _they_ get axed come _Purple Haze Feedback_. All of their other opponents end up suffering generally gruesome deaths, and those not killed end up suffering And I Must Scream fates, such as Diavolo and The Notorious B.I.G..
    -   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: JoJolion_: Josuke ends up killing most of the villains in _Jojolion_ whenever he gets the chance, the first being an accident, but every one afterwards being completely intentional.
-   _Monster Rancher_: Whenever Tiger of the Wind has his own A Day in the Limelight episode, the body count of villains tend to rise, with Tiger personally slaying Captain Dino, Captain Black Worm, Gray Wolf, and an Evil Hare working under Lilim. Out of all the Searchers, Tiger holds the highest kill count in the series.
-   In _My Hero Academia: Vigilantes_, the Vigilantes of Naruhata encounter a vigilante by the name of Stendhal. Unlike the trio, Stendhal is a Knight Templar who kills every villain he comes across. After his mask is broken in a fight with Knuckle Duster, he loses what little sanity he had left him, cuts his own nose off and changing his target to "false heroes", becoming the "Hero Killer" Stain from Hero Killer Arc of the main series.
-   In _Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann_, Team Dai-Gurren, especially their leader Simon kill nearly everyone who stands up against them, except for Viral, who joins the group after the Time Skip. Thymilph, Guame, Lordgenome and thousands upon thousands of Beastmen die by Simon's hands and drills in the first part alone. In the second part, it culminates with Simon killing the Anti-Spiral King and their entire race.
-   In _Trigun_, Vash the Stampede has a strict no-kill rule, preferring to reform the bad guys, or failing that, incapacitate them and turn them to the authorities. His traveling companion Nicholas Wolfwood instead delivers the killing blow to villains who he (Wolfwood) knows are too evil to reform and too powerful to stay incarcerated for long, albeit without Vash's knowledge as Wolfwood knows Vash would otherwise attempt to step in to Save the Villain at any cost.

    Comic Books 

-   _Batman_:
    -   The Batman of the _Flashpoint_ universe lacks the "don't kill rule" the original is known for and has eliminated most of his Rogues Gallery, with the remaining ones now being his allies. This is because the one who died in the alley was Bruce Wayne, which drove his parents mad, with Thomas becoming a Batman who shows no mercy to villains, Martha became the Joker of this universe.
    -   After being killed by the Joker and resurrected, Jason Todd abandoned Batman's rule against lethal force and essentially became DC's equivalent of the Punisher, racking up a considerably high body count of criminals.
    -   Like Jason, Helena Bertinelli does not follow the no-killing rule which has led to her clashing with other superheroes, Batman being the primary example.
-   _Invincible_: Despite his best efforts, Mark Grayson does not live in a universe that allows for Thou Shall Not Kill like Marvel and DC. As a result, he has quite a large body count consisting of Earth-based and intergalactic villains such as Conquest, Angstrom Levy (he got better), Rus Livingston, Future Immortal, Dinosaurus, Re-Animan (mutiple times), Onann and Thragg.
-   _Katana_ of DC Comics lost her husband and children to her husband's jealous brother, who had connections to the Yakuza. After killing her brother-in-law, but failing to save her family, she made it her life's mission to hunt down and kill anyone that was involved in crime, especially those who were present at her family's murder. She uses the very same sword that was used to kill her husband no less.
-   This is the entire _raison d'etre_ of the Scourge of the Underworld, who goes around murdering low-level supervillains. His purpose was to take out the villains who were considered too minor, redundant, or ill-conceived.
-   The Punisher is one of Marvel's longest-running anti-heroic characters. He has suffered a little bit since his debut from various visions by various writers, but the one consistency between all of them is that the eponymous title adopted by Frank Castle is always hunting down and killing bad guys, taking down entire crime syndicates in his wake, all motivated because one of these crime families murdered his entire family. He tends not to fare as well when dealing with supervillains, which is why he primarily sticks to regular street criminals.
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog (Archie Comics)_ had Dark Enerjak (who is Knuckles gone Knight Templar) who can pull out the core of a person leaving them as lifeless, hollow shells. Among his victims<small>◊</small> were Dr. Eggman, Snively, Ixis Naugus, and Dr. Finitevus.
-   _Spider-Man_: Kaine, the Psycho Prototype clone of Spider-man, was introduced killing Dr. Octopus, and using his "Mark of Kaine" (which was a stronger version of Spider-man's ability to cling to any surfaces) to disfigure other criminals and minor villains. He later underwent a Heel–Face Turn and became the new Scarlet Spider.
-   _The Mighty Thor_: Thor is certainly this, having easily the highest villain body count of the original Avengers and given how old he is, it’s impossible to count or guess exactly how many foes have died by his hand. In the present day comics Thor has slain: Loki (he got better), Gorr the God Butcher, The World Serpent, The Sentry (when he becomes a Fallen Hero), Desak Sterixian, Ragnarok (his Evil Knock Off), Harald Jaekelsson, Those Who Sit Above in Shadow, Glory, Ulik the Troll, Bor (his Gruesome Grandparent), Black Winter and even Galactus.
-   Wolverine is typically the character on the X-Men who is most likely to do whatever it takes to defeat the current villain, sometimes to the protest of the other X-Men or whatever other heroes he happens to be teamed up with. He was even recruited for the New Avengers _because_ of this- after what happened during Avengers Disassembled, Captain America decided that having someone willing to use lethal force on the team was necessary if distasteful. It was also how Wolverine ended up leading X-Force (2008), so he could carry out dirty jobs like wetwork for the X-Men instead of more innocent members being forced to do so.
-   Wonder Woman is known for being the member of the Justice League of America most likely to use lethal force if the situation calls for it. How quick she is to jump to the lethal option depends on the writer.

    Fan Works 

-   _The Mountain and the Wolf_: For the first few chapters, the Wolf goes around killing the worst villains that Westeros has to offer (the Mountain, Ramsay Bolton, Littlefinger, Euron Greyjoy...), not out of any sense of justice but because the Chaos gods ordered him to. Then he's caught trying to steal the Iron Throne and reappears later demanding that the entirety of the Seven Kingdoms gather their armies to fight him.
-   _The Rise of Darth Vulcan_ provides several examples that are delivered by Ted, the most prominent of them being Lord Tirek when the Centaur tried to drain the Magic from Vulcan; only to receive death via a face-full of buckshot.
-   _My Hero Academia: Unchained Predator_: Not long after getting shanghaied into the MHA world, the Doom Slayer gains the reputation of being a brutal vigilante after _ripping Shigaraki's arm off_. By Chapters 8-19, he fully becomes this trope after slaughtering Nine and his underlings on I-Island.
-   _One for All and Eight for the Ninth_: An Evil Versus Evil example of this trope. To cement himself as the Final Boss of the story, Tomura kills Mugen Shigaraki/All for One, Re-Destro, Curious, Geten, Skeptic, Mustard, Amplivolt and countless other villains during his attack on Tartarus in Chapter 74.
-   _A Darker Path_: Taylor, under the name Atropos, quickly gains this tag by going after Brockton Bay's gang leaders, killing them one by one even as they do everything in their hand to protect themselves. Her reputation only grows as other villains show up and get killed, often in ironic ways.

    Films — Animation 

-   The eponymous heroine of _Mulan_ famously has the single highest body count of any Disney princess or any animated Disney character for that matter. Using just some fireworks which causes an avalanche Mulan annihilates the Mongul hord (an army of thousands) and by killing Big Bad Shan Yu (who surived the avalanche) in the climax, her total villain kill count comes to **1,995** people.

    Films — Live-Action 

-   In _Air Force One_, President James Marshall as played by Harrison Ford proves why he earned a Medal of Honor as he outsmarts and eventually kills most of the terrorists that overtook his plane.
-   Detective Harry Callahan (as played by Clint Eastwood) has a tendency to shoot large holes in criminals, branding him as a Cowboy Cop among the precinct brass.
    -   _Dirty Harry_: Introduces Detective Callahan, and his trusty .44 Magnum, doling out bulletholes to dangerous criminals. None come away unscathed, and very few are left alive.
    -   _Magnum Force_: Still swiss-cheesing criminals, and some rogue cops as well. Harry takes out the mastermind behind the slayings with a bomb meant for himself.
    -   _The Enforcer_: A terrorist group gets their hands on some nasty weapons. Inspector Callahan proves quicker on the trigger, negating the advantage that the terrorists had.
    -   _Sudden Impact_: A Meaningful Name for a film about what happens when .44 Magnum bullets meet a band of rape-n-rob baddies at a seaside carnival. Ironically, Callahan was sent there to _lower_ his body count.
    -   _The Dead Pool_: Inspector Callahan is marked for murder by a twisted player in a deadly game of "Who Dies Next?" Callahan's quip to this villain: "You're shit out of luck."
-   Alita from _Alita: Battle Angel_ is Beware the Nice Ones personified. She's a sweet girl but is also _vicious_ in a fight, so much so that there is little threat to her in the film. The drama comes from her loved ones not being so invincible. However, Zapan, Vector, Screwhead, Grewishka, Nyssiana, Romo, Stinger, and Exploder all learned the hard way what happens when you're bold enough to do this. Zapan is the only one who survived.
-   Paul Kersey of the _Death Wish_ series (as played by Charles Bronson) makes it a point to kill bad guys. After his wife is killed and his daughter raped into a vegetative state, Kersey goes on a Roaring Rampage of Revenge on the punks responsible, plus quite a few other nasty no-goodniks in the process. His Why Don't You Just Shoot Him? approach to street crime makes Kersey into The Dreaded among Chicago's hoodlums.
-   Detective John McClane from the _Die Hard_ series always finds himself going mostly solo against armed and organized baddies. In the first film, a baddie taunts John that he should always exploit a chance to kill a mortal adversary; John took that advice to heart and forthwith subtracted baddies without mercy.
-   _Friday the 13th_: Tommy Jarvis became a series deuteragonist in parts _IV_, _V_, and _VI_. He kills Jason (or, in _Part V_, a Jason copycat) in each of the films he appears, making it his mission to make sure the undead killer stays dead.
-   The titular _John Wick_ systematically hunts down and kills everyone who was involved in killing his puppy. He does the same to anyone who gets in his way. As of the third film, all the characters who were The Dragon are dead at his hand, while the only immediate Big Bad to survive is The Adjudicator. By the end of the fourth film, John Wick has a kill count of 439 people (and that is just the ones we see on screen).
-   The Bride of _Kill Bill_ has a list of five people to kill, the five people that ambushed her at her wedding rehearsal, nearly killing her, and killing her fiancée, her unborn baby, and the other guests. She kills three of them in her rampage, including the Big Bad Bill himself, and even gets her daughter back after finding her alive.
-   _MonsterVerse_: Kong has a pretty damn high body count of Titan foes, in part because his specific territory is a cramped island of kaiju until Skull Island's destruction, compared to how Godzilla patrols the Earth and keeps peace on a more global scale, in addition to Godzilla being willing to spare Titans who submit to his dominance. Kong has killed Skullcrawlers, Packard, Maia Simmons and her pilot, a Spirit Tiger, Mother Longlegs, the list goes on...
-   Leo Barnes is the Breakout Character who is seen as The Hero of _The Purge_ movies. While in the second movie, he doesn't kill Big Daddy, he does kill the most enemies throughout the movie, protecting most of the group. However, in the third movie, he's much more this trope. He kills the most active villain Earl Danzinger on his own, and he also kills the New Founding Fathers and their secret service along with the other protagonists.
-   _Ready or Not (2019)_ has one of these, but it isn't Grace. This character _does_ kill one villain, but all the rest are killed by Mr. LeBail when he kills the LeDomas family for failing to kill Grace before sunrise, making him this trope.
-   _Scream_. The three protagonists of the various _Scream_ films are Sidney Prescott, Dewey Riley, and Gale Weathers. While the latter two have assisted in killing the various killers throughout the series, it is Sidney Prescott who has seemingly made a living off of ending the villains' lives. She killed Billy Loomis, Stu Macher, Mickey Altieri, and Jill Roberts, more villains than anyone else has. She even lampshades this tendency in her life to the killer in the third film.
    
    **Sidney**: (_to the killer of_ Scream 3) You got what you wanted. Hero and villain face to face, well you know what happens now? The villain dies!
    
-   Erin Hanson of _You're Next_ kills more characters than any of the villains. In fact, she kills _all_ of the killers, and there are _six_ of them.
-   In the DC Extended Universe, the Holy Trinity have quite an impressive body count.
    -   Wonder Woman has displayed that she's more than willing to kill people who threaten innocent lives. In her solo outing, she kills General Ludendorff and Ares, both of whom were monstrous characters. In _Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice_, she's a participant in Doomsday's death. And in _Zack Snyder's Justice League_, she's the one who ends Steppenwolf's life, decapitating him completely.
    -   Superman is not far behind her. In his first outing, he is forced to personally kill General Zod, and he's in agony over it. In the second movie, he's the one who kills Doomsday, at the cost of his life. Finally, after his resurrection in _Zack Snyder's Justice League_, he helps set up Steppenwolf's death at Wonder Woman's hands.
    -   Batman himself is not to be underestimated, even if he is only human. In his first appearance, he already has a long history of violently fighting criminals. He is seen shooting at Lex Luthor's heavily armed goons with a minigun mounted on his Batmobile and Batwing, mopping up the floor of a warehouse full of them with some highly probable fatalities, and kills Lex Luthor's Dragon Anatoli Knyazev via Flamethrower Backfire (both of the latter in order to save Martha Kent). He only gets one hit on Doomsday, but said hit is what allowed Doomsday to be killed. He gets an even more impressive moment in _Zack Snyder's Justice League_ in the final battle. Aquaman, Superman, and Wonder Woman are all combating Steppenwolf while Cyborg is trying to interface with the Mother Boxes, and the Flash is building a charge to help him. This leaves Batman alone against the Parademon army for most of the fight. After the final battle, there are no surviving Parademons, meaning he killed every last one of them almost entirely on his own.
-   The Marvel Cinematic Universe has a few of these.
    -   Iron Man is the most prolific killer of villains. In his second solo film, he shares a Big Bad kill with Rhodey against Ivan Vanko. In in his third solo film, he kills Eric Savin and Ellen Brandt. In _Age of Ultron_, he kills minor villain Doctor List, and in _Infinity War_, he kills Ebony Maw, one of Thanos' most powerful lackeys. In _Endgame_, he finally kills a Big Bad personally by snapping alternate timeline Thanos and his entire army out of existence.
    -   Pepper Potts isn't one to be underestimated either, even though her presence in the franchise isn't as prominent. In _Iron Man_, she's the one to activate the arc reactor and actually kill Obidiah Stane. In _Iron Man 3_, she uses her newfound Extremis powers to kill Aldrich Killian, which really shocks her. In fact, articles like this one from Cinemablends point out that she actually had the highest personal kill count of Big Bads of all the MCU characters. Not too shabby for a supporting character who mostly made cameo appearances after _Iron Man 3_.
    -   After his family becomes a victim of Thanos's culling of half the universe, a grief-stricken Hawkeye goes on a killing spree in _Avengers: Endgame_, targeting criminals all over the world. He is shown killing Yakuza members in Tokyo, Japan when Natasha finds him and is mentioned to have ruthlessly slaughtered an entire Mexican drug cartel earlier.
    -   Can't forget Thor, he claims he's killed twice as many foes as he is old and he's 1,500 years old at time (meaning he's likely slain over 3000 villains). In the films he kills Malekith in _Thor: The Dark World_ by sending him through a portal to be crushed, sticks Surtur on his sister Hela in _Thor: Ragnarok_ (albeit with Loki's help) and in _Endgame_ beheads the present timeline Thanos.
-   _Mortal Kombat: The Movie_ and _Mortal Kombat: Annihilation_:
    -   Liu Kang has the highest on-screen body count among the heroes. He kills Sub-Zero, Reptile and Shang Tsung in the first movie, and Baraka, Smoke and Shao Kahn in the second movie.
    -   Sonya counts to a lesser extent. She kills Kano in the first film and kills Cyrax, Mileena and Ermac in the second.
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   Obi-Wan Kenobi has to be the best at killing Sith and their apprentices in the Jedi Order. In _The Phantom Menace_, he manages to kill Darth Maul (his death was later retconned in _Star Wars: The Clone Wars_, though Obi-Wan still ends up killing Maul in _Star Wars Rebels_), while in _Revenge of the Sith_ he kills General Grievous. He also comes vey close to killing Darth Vader at the end of _Revenge of the Sith_. In the non-canon _Star Wars: Clone Wars_ two-parter by Genndy Tartakovsky Obi-Wan also kills Durge The Dreaded 2000 year old Bounty Hunter.
    -   Anakin Skywalker isn't half-bad either, as he's the one who killed Count Dooku, Nute Gunray and the other Separatists in _Revenge of the Sith_. As stated in the Prophecy, he ultimately kills the Emperor himself in _Return of the Jedi_ (at least until _The Rise of Skywalker_). In the aforementioned _Clone Wars_ cartoon Anakin also kills Asajj Ventress.
-   _Jurassic Park_: Of all people, Rexy the _Tyrannosaurus rex_ is the one who kills most of the movies' major villains. In the first film, she kills The Big One and her fellow Velociraptor, as well as Donald Gennaro (though the latter is more a Jerkass than a villain). When she returns in _Jurassic World_, Rexy plays a major role in the defeat and death of the _Indominus rex_. In the following film _Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom_, she kills a _Carnotaurus_ that was threatening the heroes, and also the Big Bad Eli Mills.
    -   In addition, Rexy appears in the TV animated show _Jurassic World: Camp Cretaceous_ and she kills Mitch, a member of the Big Bad Duumvirate of Season 2.
-   _Transformers Film Series_: Optimus Prime is the most prolific killer of Decepticons in the entire film series. He kills Bonecrusher in the first movie. He kills Grindor, Demolishor and the Fallen in the second movie. Shockwave, Sentinel and Megatron are added to his body count in the third movie. In the fourth movie, he claims the lives of Attinger and Lockdown.
    -   Surprisingly enough, _Sam Witwicky_ proves to be pretty effective when it comes to killing major villains, being the one who kills Megatron himself in the first film, as well as Starscream and Dylan Gould in the third one.

    Literature 

-   Almost every Big Bad and/or their Dragon in _Alex Rider_ meets their death at the hands of the eponymous protagonist. While several villains are also killed by other characters, Alex has the highest kill count, as he kills at least one major antagonist in every book, though it's usually done either indirectly or in self-defense. This is even discussed in _Scorpia_, where, when Alex insists that he's not a murderer, Julia Rothman points out that all of the villains he's fought have ended up dead due to his actions. Given the nature of Alex's previous kills, it's treated as a major turning point in _Scorpia Rising_, when Alex guns down Julius Grief in cold blood after the latter killed his guardian Jack Starbright.
-   Ian Fleming's superspy _James Bond_ routinely thwarts the Evil Plan of an amoral mastermind by subtracting the villain's mooks, then The Dragon, then the Big Bad himself. It started with _Dr. No_ and ran through _The Man with the Golden Gun_. The baddies usually aim to sell the Communist Chinese a nifty superweapon or trigger a war between the Soviet Union and the United States. Bond wisely makes sure these nasty nihilists do no more evil, ever.
-   Mack Bolan _The Executioner_ is a One-Man Army anti-crime series originally penned by Don Pendleton, and running to some 600 books. Bolan received his moniker from his merciless slaughter of crime syndicates around the world, eradicating whole "families" of gangsters in a single chapter. The fact that Bolan rarely errs in his Knight Templar spree on criminals at times approaches Story-Breaker Power levels. It's little wonder he's the main inspiration of similar Villain Killer The Punisher.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._: Phil Coulson is quite proficient at killing Big Bads, being the one who kills John Garrett in Season 1, Daniel Whitehall in Season 2, Grant Ward in Season 3 and Aida in Season 4.
    -   To a lesser extent, the rest of his team are pretty good at this as well:
        -   Skye/Daisy Johnson has killed her fair share of major villains as well, killing Gideon Malick in Season 3, both Sinara and Graviton in Season 5, and both Nathaniel Malick and Sibyl in Season 7.
        -   Leo Fitz is surprisingly good at killing Dragons, killing Gordon at the end of Season 2 and Giyera at the end of Season 3.
        -   Melinda May is the one who kills Izel in Season 6, and she's largely responsible for the death of Qovas in Season 5. She also killed some particularly dangerous one-time villains, such as Eva and Katya Belyakov and Scorch.
        -   Even Jemma Simmons has killed a few major villains, notably Sunil Bakshi and Alistair Fitz.
        -   Alphonso Mackenzie killed two Big Bads himself, Kasius in Season 5 and Pachakutiq in Season 6.
        -   In the span of two episodes in Season 5, Yo-Yo Rodriguez managed to kill both Anton Ivanov and Ruby Hale.
-   _Angel_: The titular vampire himself has a tremendous villain body count only rivalled by his ex girlfriend Buffy below. In the span of his series, Angel kills: Russell Winters, Talamour, Marcus, Griff, Trask, Ethros Demon, Knox, Vanessa Brewer, Vocah, Deevak, John Hancock, The Beast, Agent Hauser, Magnus Hainsley, Magnus Hainsley, Tezcatcatl, Sam Lawson, Polo (a evil puppet) Drogyn, Marcus Hamilton and even one Senior Partner. This isn't even factoring in the numerous fellow (not as nice) vampires and various kinds of demons Angel brings down.
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_: In addition to the numerous monsters of the week that have died by her hand, the eponymous character also slew almost every Big Bad in the show. The only ones she didn't kill were Warren (who was killed by Dark Willow), Glory (who was killed by Giles) and the First Evil (who couldn't be killed).
-   _Doctor Who_: The Doctor has built up a very impressive kill count (either by their own hand or by providing other characters with the means to destroy a villain) over the course of almost seventy years of the franchise running and many serials and Expanded Universe stories. These include three thousand Sea Devils in "The Sea Devils", the Sycorax Leader in "The Christmas Invasion", a being heavily implied to be Satan himself in "The Satan Pit", countless Cybermen and Daleks (although the latter have a real hard time staying gone for good) and (although the real tale is complicated) they were assumed to have killed all of the other Time Lords in the Last Time War when they went full Omnicidal Maniac to try to win. The result: by the current time, the Doctor has developed a reputation as The Dreaded, which hinders just as often as it helps them.
-   _Game of Thrones_ has numerous badass fighters, but the one who takes the cake in the number of sheer kills is the young Action Girl Arya Stark. A young girl who became so badass that she'd give Marvel anti-heroes a run for their money, she's earned herself the honor of having the highest kill count of villains in almost all of fiction. Her first major step towards this was when she singlehandedly annihilated the men of the House of Frey, the infamous instigators of the Red Wedding, netting herself 51 kills in a single act. She eventually upped the ante in the final season killing the series' Big Bad the Night King with a single stab, and in doing so, killing his entire army of over 100,000 undead wights.
-   _Inspector Koo_: Yi-kyung, The Sociopath, kills bad people—criminals and general baddies—not out of a sense of justice, but to slake her thirst to kill.
-   By the end of any _Kamen Rider_ series, the titular hero is bound to have a hefty body count of all the Monsters of the Week they've killed.
    -   _Double_ and _Fourze_ are two aversions, as the monsters in those shows were originally humans and thus are de powered rather than killed. Fourze in particular made a point of trying to befriend every villain he defeated.
    -   _Kamen Rider Build_ is another aversion, as the monsters are humans who've been unwillingly transformed, and thus are purified by Sento rather than destroyed. The only villain he intentionally kills is the Big Bad, Evolt, who definitely had it coming.
-   _Star Wars_:
    -   The eponymous bounty hunter in _The Mandalorian_ has one of the biggest bad guy body counts within the Star Wars canon having killed hundreds of a rival bounter hunters, Stormtroopers, giant Krayt Dragons and one Dark Trooper. Mando is only one upped in the last account by Luke Skywalker who destroys all Dark Troopers effortlessly.
    -   In _The Book of Boba Fett_, Boba Fett has retired from bounty hunting to take over as the local mob boss, starting with killing the prior one. With the show set in the criminal underbelly of Tattooine, most of the antagonists are more villainous than he is, and he racks up an impressive body count by the end of one season (including, by proxy, the leaders of the Pyke Syndicate and all the rival gangs).
-   In _Stranger Things_ out of the heroes Psychic Powers Eleven and Badass Normal Hopper likely have slained the most antagonists, having killed numerous evil scientists' henchmen, one named evil scientist Connie Frazier (avenging Benny), numerous Demodogs, two Demogorgans, evil Russians (with Hopper killing Implacable Man Grigori) and The Mind Flayer (though it's detable whether or not Eleven really "killed" Mind Flayer since its a construct created by Greater-Scope Villain Henry aka Vecna not necessarily a living creature).
-   _The Walking Dead (2010)_, given that it's a show about surviving the world of zombies and the even more monstrous humans left in their wake, pretty much every character is combat-capable to some degree after Season 3. However, series mainstay Carol Peletier has racked up major kill counts against villainous factions, specifically, Terminus, the Wolves, and the Whisperers. In the first, she almost singlehandedly took down the entire cannibal clan with a few bullets, a propane tank, and fireworks. For the Wolves, she took them all down by disguising herself among them when they invaded Alexandria. With the Whisperers, she singlehandedly took out half their horde of zombies (and almost got a few people killed doing so), and successfully set up their leader Alpha to be killed by Negan.

    Video Games 

-   _Devil May Cry_
    -   Dante has killed countless demons and baddies from the underworld or from Earth. In _DMC1_ he kills Phantom, Nightmare, and Nelo Angelo/Vergil (though he comes back). In _DMC2_ he kills Jokatgulm, Nefasturris, Arius<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and Argosax the demon king. In _DMC3_ he kills Cerberus, Agni & Rudra, Nevan, Beowulf and Geryon <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and defeats his brother Vergil who is the aforementioned Nelo Angelo. In _DMC4_ Dante kills Berial, Dagon, Echidna and Agnus. In _DMC5_ Dante slays Cavaliere Angelo and King Cerberus. The canonical anime series adds several other demons to Dante's body count, including the final villain Sid.
    -   Dante's nephew Nero is no slouch either, killing Sanctus the Big Bad of _DMC4_ along with Goliath, Artemis and Malphas in _DMC5_.
-   The Doomguy (later known as Doom Slayer) of _Doom_ when it comes to The Legions of Hell may have the highest bad guy body count of any video game character **period**. He has killed the Spider Mastermind, Maledict, Baron of Hell, Cyberdemon, Sabaoth, Iron lich, Maledict, Mother Of All Demons, Vagary, Icon Of Sin, Khan Maykr, The Seraphim and the Dark Lord on top of thousands, _likely millions_ of imps, pinkies, cacodemons, hell knights, revenants, and zombies.
-   _Dragon Age_: This is what gives Hawke their reputation from the middle of _Dragon Age II_ into _Dragon Age: Inquisition_. Hawke kills dozens of rogue mages and criminals, defeats the Qunari Arishok in single combat, and then defeats a red lyrium-empowered Knight-Commander Meredith of the Templars. Unlike the Warden or, later, the Inquisitor, they have no special circumstances that make them The Only One that can defeat the foes in question. Hawke is simply one of the strongest fighters of their time and the entire world knows it, thanks to Varric embellishing some of their feats in his _Tale of the Champion_ book.
-   Any playable character in a _Dynasty Warriors_ style game can become a gameplay Villain Killer once they become strong enough. Any character can mow through mooks, but as characters grow stronger, captains and bosses become little more than cannon fodder enemies that have stronger attacks.
-   Ritsuka Fujimaru of _Fate/Grand Order_ is known to be the last Master of humanity, capable of commanding various Servants despite being a mediocre mage. Throughout the story, they destroyed Demon Pillars, put down Beasts, and defeated the enemy Masters. Their reputation is so well-known that their enemies become wary of them and try to upstage them. Even the Mages' Association is interested in their abilities.
-   In _Final Fantasy XIV_, the Warrior of Light ends up accumulating a very large villain body count throughout the stories and expansions; this includes various generals and Legati of The Empire, powerful Voidsent such as Diabolos, several godly avatars called Primals, the powerful, incredibly hard to kill Ascians, a Mechanical Abomination from another planet, several massive dragons, etc. After a certain point, most of the main cast is fully confident of the Warrior of Light's ability to pull through, considering the absurd feats of power they managed to pull off. The Omega Raid storyline takes this to its logical conclusion, allowing you to fight and defeat villains from _other games_ in the _Final Fantasy_ Franchise, including Kefka, Exdeath and Chaos, though as digital recreations rather than the real deals.
-   Cloud Strife of _Final Fantasy VII_, while not quite prolfic as Warrior of Light, has still slain a fair share of his universe's villains. As a rookie, infantryman he impales World's Strongest Man Sephiroth with the Buster Sword and then tosses him into Mako reactor essentially killing him (unfortnately for everyone, Seph Came Back Strong); after that, Cloud kills Hojo (with help), Bahamut Sin and Kadaj. He also manages to take down Sephiroth again twice, albeit with his friends's help the second time, and it's inferred Sephiroth will always come back due to the Lifestream.
-   _God of War_: Kratos has quite the body count of villains under his belt as he has killed almost every Greek god and a number of the Norse gods such as Castor and pollux, Altheia, Orkos, Charon, Persephone, Ares, Erinys, Thanatos, Ceryx, Theseus, Perseus, Icarus, Athena, Poseidon, Hades, Helios, Hermes, Hercules, Cronos, Hephaestus, Hera, Zeus, Magni, Baldur, Heimdall, and took part in killing Odin. Considering the series isn't over yet, Kratos killing villains is only going to continue growing.
-   In _Hi-Fi RUSH_, Chai winds up killing most of Vandelay's executive board along with trashing hundreds of robots over the course of his adventures. Of the Vandelay bosses, the only ones who don't explode are Korsica, who has a Heel–Face Turn, Zanzo, and Roquefort. The latter two suffer Uncertain Doom and are never seen again after their defeat, with Zanzo going down in one hit and Roquefort getting buried under his own Pooled Funds.
-   _Mass Effect_: The reason Commander Shepard is so highly regarded and feared is that, against all odds, they are known for being able to do whatever it takes, defend the galaxy, and stop threats. While they already had this reputation as an N7 Marine, and later a SPECTRE, they became a Living Legend for being the first and only known person to successfully kill a Reaper. In the next games (regardless of player morality or choice), they would then go on to destroy the Collectors, a faction of renegade geth, other rogue N7s and SPECTREs, _more Reapers_, and even an Evil Doppelgänger of themselves.
-   _Metal Gear_: This is a staple of many boss fights across the series.
    -   _Metal Gear Solid_: Snake's battles with FOXHOUND end with most of them dying. The exceptions are Revolver Ocelot, who goes on to become a recurring character throughout the series, and Decoy Octopus, who dies in disguise from the FOXDIE virus inside Snake.
    -   _Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater_: Naked Snake's battles with the Cobra Unit end like this, with their deaths being very over-the-top compared to the more somber ones seen in the game.
    -   Raiden is no slouch either. In _Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty_, he kills Fatman and Solidus Snake. _Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance_ adds to his body count as he kills every member of Desperado all the way up to their leader Armstrong.
-   _Mortal Kombat_:
    -   Liu Kang, the Champion of Earthrealm, is a zig-zagged version. While his arcade endings often depict him killing the main villains, it is very rare for him to actually kill in main canon. Which makes sense since Liu Kang is supposed to be a Shaolin monk and often avoids killing. In fact, Liu Kang was the only character in the first game who didn't have a lethal finishing move. _Mortal Kombat 11_ is when this trope is played straight: after becoming Fire God Liu Kang, he kills Kronika's entire army, Revenant Jade, Kung Lao and Kitana, and then Kronika herself. _Aftermath_ retcons this, but in the "good" ending, Fire God Liu Kang reveals himself as The Chessmaster that "allowed" all of this to happen before he finally kills Shang Tsung and ascends to omnipotent godhood.
    -   Raiden, especially in his Dark Raiden persona, kills off villains right and left. By sacrificing himself in _Deception_, he kills off Shang Tsung and Quan Chi in the old timeline. It was his manipulation that finally resulted in Shao Kahn being killed by the Elder Gods in the new timeline, and he later beheads the defeated Shinnok to make sure he can no longer be a threat. He also kills Frost and her Cyber Lin Kuei, traps Geras in a bottomless ocean, and finally merges Remnant Liu Kang with his younger self to birth Fire God Liu Kang. Once again, most of these accomplishments are undone in _Aftermath_.
-   _Ninja Gaiden_: It doesn't matter if they are human, beast or demon, Ryu Hayabusa _will_ kill any villain unfortunate enough to cross paths with him if it is within his capabilities (which is quite often).
-   Nintendo has four franchise examples: Mario & Luigi, Link, Samus Aran, and Kirby. All four of these characters in their respective game franchises fight several different epic bosses, making each of them this trope by default. However, just having them fighting their games' various Final Bosses really make them this trope, as the finales to their games usually have them defeating and killing enemies comparable to Eldritch Abominations.
    -   Mario has fought and killed Bowser and his various underlings many times, but they always find ways to come back to life. In fact, Mario has fought alongside Luigi, Bowser, Peach, and other side characters at different times against greater evils that they destroy. Among them are an evil witch that wanted to steal the power of the Beanstar, an evil bean wielding the power of an eldritch monstrous black star, a millennia-old demonic shadow's soul, and an evil clown with dimensional powers that tried to destroy the multiverse.
    -   Link has reincarnated many times across the _Zelda_ timelines, but in many of the games, he has fought Ganon/Ganondorf Dragmire alongside Zelda herself, and in some instances, they have killed him. The most notable case of this was in _Twilight Princess_, where Zelda and Link work together to stop Ganondorf, and Link fully and completely kills him. However, in other games, he fights other villains that he usually kills. Some of these monsters include a dark shadowy version of himself, a malevolent apocalyptic mask that tried to drop the moon on the world, a life force-sucking squid-like monster with unnaturally placed eyes, and the progenitor of every monster in the franchise before Hyrule was even created.
    -   Samus Aran is an intergalactic bounty hunter, and she lives up to her reputation by accomplishing tasks thought impossible. Her villain body count includes a Metroid mutated with Phazon to become a massive spidery monster that could imitate her armor to save its life, the destruction of the Metroid species in its entirety, and two counts of detonating a Space Pirate base (the latter taking the entire planet it was on with it). There is a reason that Samus is feared throughout the galaxy.
    -   Kirby has fought numerous enemies and has in fact killed several of them, many times by himself. Among the monstrous foes he's fought include evil star-shaped monsters that can possess people, a malevolent monster that can take a form that looks like Kirby himself, an evil witch that turned Kirby into a sphere and cursed the land to resemble paintings, and a fiery eyeball wearing a knight's armor that wanted to conquer the mirror dimension.
-   Aya Brea of _Parasite Eve_ fame like the RE protags below has killed a massive amount of monsters and mutated villains within her game and sequels. In the first game alone Aya kills Big Bad Mitochondria Eve and shortly after kills the Ultimate Life Form Eve gave birth to and in The Very Definitely Final Dungeon Aya slays Truebred Eve albeit with her sister Maya's help.
-   _Resident Evil_: Just about any main protagonist has racked up a large body count of villains, monsters and zombies but a few stand out enough to qualify for this trope.
    -   Chris Redfield and Jill Valentine are the original protagonists of the series and have taken down a large number of zombies and mutants. Jill famously killed Nemesis, a BOW created to hunt and kill members of STARS, while Albert Wesker, the series' longest-running Big Bad, met his demise at the hands of Chris and Sheva in _Resident Evil 5_. _Resident Evil: Vendetta_ also sees Chris kill Arms Dealer Glenn Arias. In _Resident Evil 7: Biohazard_, Chris kills Lucas Baker.
    -   Leon Kennedy is no slouch himself. After surviving the events of _Resident Evil 2_ (where he killed the Tyrant Mr X), Leon Took a Level in Badass, becoming a highly skilled government agent tasked with dangerous and important missions. Leon has killed Cartel boss Javier Hidalgo, wiped out the entire Los Illuminados cult almost single-handedly and killed Derek C. Simmons, the corrupt National Security Advisor with help from Ada Wong and Helena Harper. The CGI animated movies only added to Leon's considerably high body count and he even helped Chris in the aforementioned killing of Glenn Arias. In _Resident Evil: Infinite Darkness_ Leon kills the mutated Jason with a little help from Claire.
    -   Claire Redfield (Chris’s sister) has got a large body count herself. She kills the mutated William Birkin by stabbing him in the eye with a steel pipe in the _Resident Evil 2 (Remake)_ <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and in _Resident Evil – Code: Veronica_ Taking a Level in Badass Claire takes down an entire Umbrella squad in the opening by shooting a gas tank, kills Nosferatu aka Alexander Ashford and mortally wounds his son Alfred shortly after. She also kills the mutated Neil Fisher in the Bad Ending of _Resident Evil: Revelations 2_ and helps Barry kill Alex Wesker (Albert’s sister) in the Golden Ending.
    -   "Separate Ways", Ada's playable section in _4_, has her taking on an entire battleship of 400-500 soldiers and killing them all. She also slays Krauser, Wesker's Dragon. In _6_, it is Ada who kills Carla Radames, the Big Bad of the game.
    -   _Resident Evil 7: Biohazard_ introduces new protagonist Ethan Winters whose search for his wife Mia brings him into conflict with the Bakers, a family of sadistic murderers. After killing most of the antagonistic Bakers, Ethan confronts and kills Eveline, the genetically-modified human responsible for corrupting the Bakers. In _Resident Evil Village_, Ethan, courtesy of some training from the BSAA, has become a One-Man Army capable of taking on an entire village of monsters to save his daughter and ends up killing every single member of the Four Houses before putting down their leader Mother Miranda. What makes Ethan so impressive is that he didn't start out as a cop, a soldier or government agent; he was just a regular guy with a civilian job who wanted to save his family.
-   _Sniper Elite V2_ and it's prequels have series protagonist Lt. Karl Fairburne as this, responsible for killing hundreds of German, and later, rogue Soviet, soldiers, as well as numerous high-ranking Nazi officers and important scientists, several of whom were either an Arc Villain or that campaign's respective Big Bad. In fact, he's responsible for the destruction of at least _five_ Nazi wonder-weapon prototypes, two of which have come _remarkably close_ to targeting and killing important Allied officials. In fact, to German veterans of the North African Campaign, he's in fact The Dreaded and is nicknamed "The Desert Ghost", and "The Shadow" amongst other Axis units.
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog_: Sonic and Shadow have racked up a number of villain kills either as a duo, as individuals, or with a little help from friends. Granted, many of these villains are mindless monsters, but maybe Dr. Eggman should feel lucky that he has Joker Immunity.
    -   _Sonic Adventure 2_: The Final Boss, the Biolizard, is killed by Super Sonic and Super Shadow.
    -   _Shadow the Hedgehog_: Shadow uses the Eclipse Cannon to vaporize Black Doom and the rest of the Black Arms in the game's true ending.
    -   _Sonic Riders_: The Babylon Guardian is destroyed by Sonic.
    -   _Sonic the Hedgehog (2006)_: Super Sonic, Super Shadow and Super Silver destroy the time god Solaris together, which is then promptly erased from history by a time-traveling Sonic and Princess Elise.
    -   _Sonic Storybook Series_: In _Sonic and the Secret Rings_, Sonic permanently traps Erazor Djinn in his own magic lamp, and later throws it into a pit of lava with Erazor still in it. In _Sonic and the Black Knight_, Sonic kills the titular Black Knight. The fact that said Black Knight is also _King Arthur himself_ in the latter game's story prompts Merlina to discuss this earlier on:
        
        **Merlina:** If you remove that sword and defeat King Arthur with it, you shall forever be the worst of knights, slayer of kings...  
        **Sonic:** Guess I can't be the hero every time.
        
    -   _Sonic Unleashed_: Super Sonic kills Dark Gaia. While Dark Gaia has Complete Immortality and is eventually reborn after millions of years, it still counts.
-   _Tales of Vesperia_: Yuri Lowell is a former Imperial Knight who eventually came to despise the way that the wealthy and powerful got away with their crimes while forcing the lower classes to suffer injustices. He became a Knight Errant and Vigilante willing to help others. During the game, Yuri and the group see this firsthand, with two completely unrepentant villains repeatedly getting away with their crimes because of their status, after which Yuri himself would target said villain and kill them. Flynn, Yuri's best friend and a high ranking knight who hopes to change things from within, eventually finds out and the two duel, but the two come to an agreement that Flynn needs to remain The Paragon that inspires hope in the system while Yuri works as his "darker" counterpart who works outside of the law.
-   _Tomb Raider_: The rebooted version of Lara Croft is a One-Woman Army who is almost completely unstoppable to anyone and anything that gets in her way. In her very first adventure, she had taken down a Japanese sorceress queen with power over weather, her maniacal lackey, and her army of undead samurai warriors, and her lackey's army of fanatical murderers. In her second adventure, she fought off an entire branch of the Ancient Conspiracy Trinity, killing an entire branch of their forces and the cowardly younger brother of that branch's leader, though Lara didn't kill said leader herself. In her final conflict against Trinity, she eventually killed their leader while he _possessed the power of a Mayan god_. And all of that was in her first major conflict with a huge group.

    Web Animation 

-   Lampshaded in _HFIL_, where Cell is suprised to learn that all but three of the other MCMs present (Raditz, Super Kami Guru, and Freeza) were personally killed by Vegeta. And while it goes unstated, there were an additional two who had already left the program prior to Cell's arrival (Nappa and Cui) who were also killed by him.
    
    **Cell:** No wonder Vegeta had an overinflated ego - you all fed him!
    

    Western Animation 

-   _Batman: Mask of the Phantasm_: The titular Phantasm is a vigilante who systematically murders multiple mob bosses throughout Gotham City. This is because The Phantasm is Andrea Beaumont, whose father was killed by the mafia and has come back to Gotham City to avenge him by killing them all.
-   _Castlevania_: Trevor, Sypha and Alucard have killed a colossal amount of monsters: Cyclops, Blue Fang, the Minatour, Malphas Gaibon, Slogra and The Visitor as well as villains such as: Dragoslav, Zufall, Sharma, Raman and Chō (three of which Sypha killed), Dracula (though he let it happen), Ratko, four Necromancers, Dragan and even Death. The only villain who they don't kill or even meet is Carmilla who takes herself out trying to kill Isaac.
-   The park crew from _Regular Show_, especially Mordecai and Rigby, have a track record of killing almost every villain they encounter, intentionally or otherwise. The Season 4 special Exit 9B brings back the villains they've killed up until that point, which are enough to form an entire _army_.

___