_♫"Hey, how you doing, Li'l Brotha', let me whisper in your ear  
Tell you something that you might like to hear..."♪_

_"We like our villains like we like our Book of Genesis: with implied incestuous relationships."_

So you have a character who is a villain. He's kicked puppies, tortured defenseless kittens, and done a bunch of other stuff to demonstrate his villainy. What else can you do to show the audience that he is evil in every way?

You have him break sexual taboos and engage in certain "taboo" or borderline activities which are frowned upon by many cultures. Sure, Even Bad Men Love Their Mamas, but some bad men love their mamas a _little_ too much, and this can be meant to add to the audience's view of the villain as depraved and committing evil and "unnatural" acts daily.

This exploits a specific primal instinct-based sex taboo and is specifically based on the equating of breaking taboos with evil. When defied, this is presented as Even Evil Has Standards. The latter can and does come across not as a mere Values Dissonance, but as outright Hypocrisy, resulting in a Broken Aesop. Many cultures have world/humanity Creation Myths involving Divine Incest (and human incest, if the myth involves a few early humans giving rise to all of humanity), highlighting a moral dissonance between the primal and the religious.

Compare/contrast Brother–Sister Incest, Twincest, Parental Incest, and Kissing Cousins. If it's one-sided on the villain's part, it overlaps with Incest-ant Admirer. If the child themselves is the abuser, they will be an Abusive Offspring. Can cross over with Freudian Excuse if it's implied to be rooted in child abuse. It may be part of a Rape as Backstory scenario, either for the villain themself, or whichever relative(s) were involved. If children result, expect them to be Inbred and Evil.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime & Manga 

-   Dr. Hagen and his sister Nina in _Agent Aika_. Interestingly, she was the creepier one in that pairing.
-   Played for laughs in the _Black Butler Hamlet_ OVA, when Grell/Ophelia gets the hots for Agni/Polonius. Agni thinks it's disgusting, even if he's not related to Grell.
-   Hansel and Gretel from _Black Lagoon_. It's with each other, and they're kids—and yet this is one of the _least disturbing things_ about them.
-   While never explicitly stated in the manga version of _Chrono Crusade_, this is hinted at with two separate villains.
    -   Once Joshua gets Chrono's horns, his resulting insanity causes him to become VERY obsessed with his older sister Rosette, going so far as to tell her once they meet again that he'll destroy _anyone_ that would separate them again. (Understandably, Rosette is horrified at this suggestion.) He also mistook his maid Fiore for his older sister when they first met, and she's later hinted to be something of a love interest for him, and even asks him to call her "sister" again before they part for the last time.
    -   Aion is generally not shown to be interested in romantic relationships, he's very obsessed with his twin brother, Chrono. He's described as "not being the same" after they parted ways by other characters, and in a flashback, he describes the sight of his brother covered in blood as "beautiful." He also appears to be kissing the _decapitated head of his mother_ in one scene near the end of the manga.
-   Alexis and his sister Augusta in _Count Cain_.
-   The twins Mukuro and Junko are heavily implied to share this in _Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School_ as Mukuro's sisterly affection was twisted into undying devotion as well as sexual attraction through Junko's manipulation, and the two share an incestuous Masochism Tango with Junko beating, insulting, and occasionally trying to kill Mukuro while she gets off on it. In the novel tie-in _Danganronpa Zero_, Mukuro turns ecstatic and feverish as she explains Junko's motives and claims Junko needs her because she's the only one who understands her.
-   In _Elfen Lied_, Director Kakuzawa's master plan involves Lucy creating offspring with her half-brother. It ends about as well as you'd expect.
-   The creepy twins Yu Fan and Yu Lan from _Full Metal Panic!: The Second Raid_.
-   Auguste Beau of _Kaze to Ki no Uta_ uses sex to control and manipulate his son, Gilbert.
-   _Kill la Kill_ has Satsuki's mother Ragyo, who molests her daughter regularly. If the flashbacks are anything to go by, this has been going on for a _long_ time. And there is the 'Bath Scene', which serves to establish Ragyo as the main villain and to show part of Satsuki's Freudian Excuse and shift to the protagonist side. Later in the series, she does the same to her long-lost daughter, Ryuko. And in the same episode, we find out that Nui Harime, who is practically Ragyo's foster daughter was also molested by her (although she is the only one who doesn't seem to mind).
-   The behavior exhibited by Maestro Delphine from _Last Exile_ toward her younger brother Dio hints at her having incestuous feelings toward him, though this is never made explicit.
-   Downplayed in _Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha StrikerS_ where Jail Scaglietti implanted his twelve cyborg daughters with clones of himself. No actual sexual intercourse took place, though it doesn't make it any less creepy.
-   In _Magi: Labyrinth of Magic_, Gyokuen married her brother-in-law after her first husband died (considered incest by many ancient cultures) and once her second husband died, she became uncomfortably touchy-feely to her nephew/stepson first prince Kouen, to the shock and disgust of her other children. Kouha remarked that she was always very fond of Kouen and now decided to move on from her husband (Kouen's father) to Kouen himself.
-   The Black Beauty Sisters in _Mermaid Melody Pichi Pichi Pitch_ are almost certainly a couple, but it's never made clear whether they're actually sisters or not.
-   Johan Liebert from _Monster_ is one of the worst examples in this folder. Despite his twin sister trying to kill him when they were kids, he has unnatural feelings for Anna/Nina. He started stalking her, leaving her love notes, and buying gifts for her. She doesn't feel the same way, obviously, and is more than eager to shoot him again if he were to come near her—something he seems to be banking on.
-   _Panty & Stocking with Garterbelt_:
    -   Demon sisters Scanty and Kneesocks apparently enjoy partaking in strange sexual play involving caviar, figs, and goat milk when the mayor isn't looking.
    -   But, the protagonist angel sisters are also hinted to be _very_ close at one point (looking forward to bonding over Panty's sex tape).
-   _Revolutionary Girl Utena_:
    -   Akio Ohtori regularly has sex with his sister Anthy Himemiya. It's both an example of this trope, and an allusion to their nature—incest is rather common among many cultures' gods.
    -   Miki and Kozue may do the same during their car ride, and Touga and Nanami very nearly do; at best, it's a rather blunt metaphor about each girl's relationship with men now that they've begun puberty. Interestingly enough, Nanami, the girl who has harbored a very blatant (and often sexual) crush on her brother, is absolutely horrified when she discovers that Anthy and Akio are intimate. And during her own car ride with her brother, she reacts with disgust and punches him away when he makes a move on her.
-   Sorath and Tiriel from _Shakugan no Shana_, stunning Shana in the process.
-   The Long twins from _Twilight of the Dark Master._ Taken to a whole new level of creepy (or hilarious) when you find out that their voice actors in the dub are _husband and wife._
-   In _Tokyo Ghoul_, a Breeding Cult engaging in incestuous relations proves to be a major piece of the dark puzzle. Namely, Rize Kamishiro is an escaped Breeding Slave that was destined to be raped and forced to bear children to her own biological father, CCG chairman Tsuneyoshi Washuu. Her half-brother, Furuta, turns out to be a Yandere that wants to replace their father, marry her, and use her as his personal Baby Factory.
-   In _Trigun_, Knives's relationship with both his identical twin brother Vash and their legions of less humanoid "sisters" is not wholesome. At one point he regenerates his body by gruesomely "birthing" himself fully-formed from a sister (which severely injures her), and at other points he forces Vash to use his Angel Arm in a very... suggestive way. He later tries to fuse with Vash by grabbing him and forcibly drawing his brother's consciousness into himself, claiming it's to ensure they both survive the apocalypse he plans to bring about. _Trigun Stampede_ dispenses with subtlety and overtly presents him as an abusive, controlling partner to a _very_ unwilling Vash — minus any sexual component, but just barely.
-   Even though _Vampire Knight_ establishes that pure-blood vampires interbreed, Yuki and Kaname's uncle definitely qualifies. He projects his feelings for his late sister onto his teenage niece. Talk about creepy.
-   Marube from _Yuureitou_ molests his daughter Satoko and is incredibly overprotective of her. He said when she turned twenty he planned on taking her virginity, though after learning it's unlikely he's her biological father, she ran away. Later he tries to have sex with Tetsuo, his biological son.

    Comic Books 

-   Jason and Cheryl from _Afterlife with Archie_ are involved in Twincest. It's implied to not be 100% consensual on Cheryl's side. As a child, Jason was very clingy towards Cheryl to the point of killing her puppy in jealousy. As a teenager, he is very overprotective of her and gets jealous very easily.
-   An obscure Marvel Universe character from the equally obscure _Comet Man_ series knowingly started dating his estranged and unwitting sister as part of a plan to revenge himself on his entire family. While sex was never made explicit, they had moved in together for some weeks before his relationship with her was revealed.
-   _Doctor Strange_: Baron Mordo knowingly had a sexual relationship with his Romani half-niece (she was unaware of the relationship) which ultimately resulted in a daughter. Just to make it worse, Mordo seduced her to steal the Book of Cagliostro, a book of spells, and then abandoned her.
-   Near the end of _Hardware (1993)_, the villains Post-Mortem and Autopsy, who are brother and sister, make out at one point just to provide another example of how messed up they are besides forcing immigrants to work in sweatshops and killing those unable to continue working to harvest their organs.
-   In the Bad Future of _Old Man Logan_, the Hulk has made a Face–Heel Turn and sired the Hulk Gang with his cousin She-Hulk. To add to the villainy part, it's strongly implied that this was non-consensual.
-   In _Runaways_, it's never been outright stated that Molly's evil parents were an incestuous couple, but they _do_ happen to have the same powers and their mutations manifested in the same way, which is, if not impossible, extremely rare with mutants who are not biologically related. The 2017 series reveals that they're foster siblings who got their powers through experimentation by Alice's mother, at least according to said mother.
-   _Many_ of the villains in _Sandman Mystery Theatre_ are incestuous in one way or another, to the point that you start to wonder about the writer...
-   In _Secret Six_, the old villain Ragdoll (Peter Merkel) from _The Flash_ is heavily implied to have sexually abused his daughter, Alex. Later on, it appears that his son Peter Jr. and Alex (both now villains themselves) partake in an incestuous relationship themselves, although a consensual one.
-   The _Sin City_ short story entitled _Daddy's Little Girl_ has a rather disturbing example of this. A woman seduces a man but claims that her father does not approve of the relationship, eventually asking him to shoot him. It turns out that the whole thing was a setup. She was sleeping with her father, and he apparently gets off by killing people before sleeping with his own daughter.
-   In _Spider-Man/Black Cat: The Evil That Men Do_, Francis Klum outright states that his big brother Garrett sexually abused him for years, to the point that Francis became unable to enjoy consensual sex, which led to his discovering his mind-control abilities.

-   In Alan Moore's _Swamp Thing_ run, Abby is unknowingly seduced by her own uncle, the uber-evil villain Dr. Anton Arcane.
-   _The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (2007)_: While it's implied throughout the franchise that the family _may_ have been committing incest, _Raising Cain_ outright states it. After one family member's wife is killed (in part, by him) he nonchalantly states he has plenty of other sisters he can marry, also indicating he and the rest of the family are going to eat the dead one ("Meat should never go to waste!").
-   Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch are in a long-term relationship with each other in the _Ultimate Marvel_ universe, possibly based on an earlier meme originating in the original comic universe — so much so to the point that Pietro actually gets jealous when Wanda hits on a robot. However, the two of them are more Anti-Hero with Anti-Villain moments as opposed to out-and-out villains.
-   _Vampirella_: After Pixie Fattonie is turned into a vampire, one of the first things she does to show how she's lost all humanity is to molest her sister Dixie in front of a crowd of vampires.

-   Andrea and Andreas Strucker, the Fenris twins from _X-Men_, derive their powers from being in constant physical contact with each other. Then it gets squickier after Andrea dies. Technically, their incest is never confirmed, and Andreas denies it at one point (well, that's not surprising), but the implications are incredibly strong.

    Fairy Tales 

-   "Donkeyskin" has a king lusting after her beautiful younger female niece or daughter, forcing her to flee from her own home.
-   In Finnish folktales, the villains, bogeymen, and monsters are assumed to have gotten their birth from villainous incest.

    Fan Works 

-   _Abraxas (Hrodvitnon)_: Both Ghidorah's regenerating body and the autonomous MaNi version of Ghidorah's right head are perfectly happy to use Rape Is a Special Kind of Evil among other Cold-Blooded Torture on Monster X to torment Vivienne into Ax-Crazy insanity, and are planning to use her as a monster Baby Factory. Although Vivienne was born a human, Ghidorah's heads do still think that her transformation into Monster X by San's severed head makes her both their sister and their daughter, and the fact she has a "shed skin" version of San as her transformed body's second head doesn't deter MaNi at all from performing a subtextual violation of Monster X's body.
-   In _Ash and Petals_, Azula's abusive father Ozai has sexually abused her for years. After being exiled, Azula finds out she's pregnant by him.
-   In _The Awakening of a Magus_, it is mentioned that a demon descended line to which Voldemort belongs (along with Draco and Snape; the line doesn't make you automatically evil) once gave birth to twins (normally, those imbued with the demon's power are only born a few decades apart). These twins became lovers, seeing no one else as a proper partner. Their Inbred and Evil offspring is a separate story.
-   The _Gargoyles_ series "Broken Mirror" includes the revelation that Thailog created a clone of Angela, Alegna, in secret along with the other clones. Brooklyn is disgusted when he runs into Alegna on a patrol and learns how Thailog has manipulated her into a relationship with him through talk of keeping the bloodlines "pure", even though Thailog is technically Alegna's father since he's both her creator and his genetic template (Goliath) directly fathered Alegna's template (Angela).
-   Much _Code Geass_ fanfic, especially AUs where Nunally and Lelouch are never banished, take the Britannincest subtext to the next level. Schneizel/Cornelia, Cornelia/Euphemia, Euphemia/Lelouch, Lelouch/Nunally, and Schneizel/Lelouch are all very popular.
-   A _Descendants_ fanfic series features Anastasia's daughter and Drizella's son as a couple and they're among the numerous VKs that help our main characters take over Auradon.
-   While the relationship between Papa Smurf and Smurfette in the _Empath: The Luckiest Smurf_ story series is mostly father and daughter with only a hint of incestuous desire from Papa Smurf himself, even though neither of them is biologically related, their Mirror Universe counterparts go straight into this territory by its Papa Smurf marrying its Smurfette outright, although its Smurfette is not entirely faithful unto him and has promiscuous desires for her fellow Smurfs, except for its Empath, who is basically a mind rapist.
-   In the _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ parody series _Friendship is Witchcraft_, Villain Protagonist Twilight Sparkle cements her place as the Big Bad of the series by sabotaging her brother's wedding, imprisoning his fiancee in a cave and leaving her to die, and marrying her brother herself. She tries to justify her crush and marriage to her brother by saying they are Not Blood Siblings. It's still pretty creepy even according to Fluttershy. And before anyone asks, by all appearances her brother has been brainwashed into going along with it.
-   Rather a lot of _Harry Potter_ fanfiction, and for good reason. As noted below, the purebloods are absolutely obsessed with keeping their lineage "pure", untainted by Muggle blood. There's also not that _many_ of them, so sooner or later they're going to have to resort to first cousins, or worse. And some of Voldemort's followers are easily bugfuck nuts enough that they might actually be okay with this!
-   _Higher Learning_: Details are not given, but in the original pre-Peggy Sue timeline, the first one of Shinji and Asuka's kids to demonstrate the logical consequences of an Adam and Eve Plot was _also_ the one who ended up murdering his mother. Time-traveller Kaoru "Mizayaki" is this individual's child by his sister.
-   _Hivefled_: The Grand Highblood and the Condesce went out of their way to have children and track them down, against the social norms of their species (who usually never know their offspring), purely for this purpose.
-   _The Immortal Game_: Titan, having taken over Equestria, attempts to force his daughter Luna to marry her brother Empyrean to solidify the latter's position as rightful acting ruler. It's also later revealed that his wife Terra is actually his daughter as well.
-   _Inner Demons_: You know the subtle Incest Subtext that exists between Twilight Sparkle and Shining Armor in canon? Well, after being consumed by her Queen persona, Twilight stops bothering with either subtlety _or_ subtext, to the point that she imprisons and impersonates Cadence to sleep with Shining Armor. And when Shining Armor rejects her advances and sides with the protagonists, Twilight has a full-blown Villainous Breakdown and attempts to kill Cadence in a jealous rage.
-   _The Mountain and the Wolf_:
    -   After Cersei and Jaime are captured by the Wolf, he allows them to sleep together as a reward for good performance (like Jaime besting a Slaaneshi warrior in combat). He doesn't approve of it though, as he constantly refers to it when he insults them.
    -   When Sigvald the Magnificent shows up, he's mistaken for Joffrey (Jaime and Cersei's son) returned to life (already a common joke in the fandom). The Wolf nearly cries himself laughing, as he's the only one to realize that one character born of Brother–Sister Incest is being mistaken for another.
-   _Nala: My Father's Madness_:
    -   After Sarafina's death Scar tries to seduce Nala due to the fact Zira hasn't given him a suitable enough heir (Nuka is sickly). Nala refuses. When it's revealed that Scar is her father, the lioness' are disgusted when Zira claims Scar tried to make his own daughter his queen. Scar tries to claim that he mistook Nala for her mother in his grief due to their Strong Family Resemblance, however, no one believes him.
    -   Nala is also betrothed to her half-brother Nuka, though this is presented negatively due to their age gap and relationship. Scar doesn't care though and won't annul the engagement.
-   In the _Oneiroi Series_, a _Order of the Stick_ series of fanfics, Deirdre rapes and kills her father, gets pregnant by him, and then manipulates her brother into having sex. Most of the other villains think that she's going to do the same to her uncle, too.
-   A play in _Perfect Diamond World_ uses characters obviously based on Queen Elsa and her sister Princess Anna. The play portrays them as a villainous couple. Most viewers take it as political slander, but Elsa and Anna's cousin Rapunzel realizes the truth in the play. Elsa and Anna may not be evil, but they _are_ in a relationship, and it disgusts Rapunzel.
-   There is a _Pokémon Diamond and Pearl_ Crack Fic in which Saturn and Jupiter have sex regularly even though they're cousins. Mars also mentions having once had sex with her _brother,_ which she thinks of as okay because the ancient Egyptians used to do it. Granted, none of them actually do anything all that evil, except under Cyrus's orders.
-   On top of being the terrible emotionally abusive parent he is in canon, Ozai in _Restraint_ physically abused both his kids and sexually abused Azula. Mai's parents guessed it but no one could do anything against the Fire Lord so it was pushed under the rug for years.
-   _So We'd Both Be Free_: On top of being emotionally abusive towards his Azula, Ozai also wishes to continue his bloodline using his teenage daughter. He succeeds in getting her pregnant after a few years of trying. When Azula gets too close to her slave (and girlfriend) Ty Lee for his liking, Ozai reveals his intentions to sell Ty Lee to someone else. This prompts Ty Lee to attempt lover's suicide with Azula (however only Ty Lee dies). Years later, Ozai ends up dying of illness, and he mistakes Azula for her Missing Mom Ursa.
-   In _Stand In The Rain,_ a _Percy Jackson and the Olympians_ fanfiction, the main character is raped by her mentally disturbed half-brother. From Bad to Worse: she gets pregnant.
-   In _Things Jade Hates_, Jade's abusive mother sexually abused her in the past. She spent time in jail but has recently been let out. She threatens to do the same to Jade's 6-year old brother Ash.
-   _We Are the Night_ has a rather convoluted case: Batman/Damian's Evil Doppelgänger from an alternate timeline, Xu'ffasch, lusts after Main!Damian's teenage sister and Robin, Helena, and wants to make her his wife. He doesn't consider his intentions incestuous as she's not _his_ sister, but openly admits it wouldn't make a difference if she were. The first confrontation with Xu'ffasch traumatizes both of the siblings and Damian's fear that he might subconsciously have amorous feelings for Helena drives him to push her away and briefly broke them up.
-   Given the fact that most _Wizards of Waverly Place_ fics are focusing on Justin/Alex, many of them portray their relationship as wicked and harmful, and few have happy endings.
    -   In _Perfect Lies_, Justin has a calm life, a four years old daughter, and a loving wife. Then Alex comes and creeps in, destroying it slowly, by alluring him into having sexual affairs with her. And she enjoys it.
-   In, _You Are Mine_, Frollo adopts an infant Esmeralda as his daughter and names her "Agnes". Agnes grows up seeing Frollo as her father, but Frollo doesn't have the same viewpoint. As she grows, he begins lusting at her. He tries to invoke Wife Husbandry and when Agnes resists he rapes her.

    Film — Live-Action  

-   Played for laughs in _Blades of Glory_ with Stranz and Fairchild Van Waldenberg. Hilarious in Hindsight since the actors were a married couple at the time.
-   _Bleeders_ (1997) is an obscure horror movie loosely based on Lovecraft's short story _The Lurking Fear_ where the blood-sucking monsters are the degenerate descendants of an isolationist noble family.
-   Noah Cross from _Chinatown_ famously crossed the Moral Event Horizon when it was revealed that he molested Evelyn Mulwray, his own daughter, which resulted in her having a daughter who was her sister as well. He ends up with custody of the inbred kid, who can expect some serious abuse of her own after Evelyn gets a bullet in the head. Not a pleasant ending at all.
-   _Crimson Peak_ reveals that Thomas and Lucille Sharpe have had this going on since they were _teenagers_. Even worse, she actually gave birth to his child, but the baby didn't last long.
-   Top Dollar and his half-sister Myca from _The Crow_. They were both into it, they just both happened to be evil.
-   In _Cruel Intentions_, Sarah Michelle Gellar's character promises to sleep with her step-brother if he can deflower an avowed virgin before the summer is over. Somewhat averted in that they're not blood relatives, so it's not proper incest.
-   In _Cry of the Banshee_, Edgar Whitman's oldest son, Sean, rapes his stepmother Lady Patricia.
-   In _Dark Heritage_, the Dansen clan eventually began practicing incest among themselves; eventually devolving into an Inbred and Evil Cannibal Clan.
-   _The Devil's Advocate_ implies a sexual relationship between Satan and his female offspring. She certainly has no moral boundaries regarding offering herself to her own brother to create The Antichrist, with the Devil being the one proposing it to his son. Then there's that scene where Kevin sees her and another woman making out in an elevator before going up to Milton's apartment for a presumed threesome.
-   The extremely villainous Calvin Candy of _Django Unchained_ is strongly implied to be… involved with his sister. Nothing is explicitly stated or shown, but the subtext is heavy.
-   Commodus from _Gladiator_ had a sister complex. The sister in question, Lucilla, was not into it. It also seemed to be rooted in an overriding sense of narcissism on Commodus' part, judging by his stated obsession to create a "blood pure" dynasty, whether she wanted to or not.
-   _Hellboy II: The Golden Army_ had the Big Bad imply that he was in love with his twin sister. Apparently, this was intentional amongst the actors.
-   In the original _Hellraiser_ film, Kristy's Uncle Frank starts tiring of the sex he has with her stepmother (his own sister-in-law). So he decides to turn his attention to Kristy, later noticing how beautiful she's grown up to be, and attempting numerous times to rape her (even culminating in _kissing_ her). Considering that Frank is well known for having broken _all_ sexual taboos and kinks, it's unsurprising that he'd be keen on trying out incest with a minor. It's easy to forget that the Cenobites—despite being the face of the franchise—aren't the worst people in this movie.
-   Parker Posey's character in _The House of Yes_ is romantically obsessed with her own twin brother. They are revealed to have had a sexual relationship in the past.
-   In _Island of Death_, serial killers Christopher and Celia are revealed at the end of the film to be siblings who are engaged in an incestuous relationship.
-   _Kiss of the Tarantula_: The main antagonist, Walter, has a one-sided attraction to Susan, his paternal niece. Walter was having an affair with Susan's late mother and tries to take up where he left off once Susan was of age. Susan (who knew about the affair), wants none of it or him.
-   _La Reine Margot_: The eponymous queen Marguerite de Valois has sex with her brothers and their brother Anjou is in love with their mother, Catherine de Medici. The whole incestuous lot is pretty villainous with atrocities, backstabbing, and poisonings under their belt, though a couple of them are more ambiguous including Margot herself. This is a Historical Villain Upgrade: the real Medicis had their share of intrigue and scheming but—so far as we know, anyway—no incest on this level.
-   In _The Northman_, during The Reveal where Evil Matriarch Queen Gudrun confesses to her son Amleth that she was the one who arranged for his Evil Uncle to kill his father and attempt to do the same to him, she offers to be his "queen" if he killed the rest of their family during his Roaring Rampage of Revenge and plants a kiss on his lips. Amleth is understandably horrified and shoves her away screaming while she gives an Evil Laugh, and it comes across as her taunting him (since she certainly does NOT want him to kill anyone more or even survive himself).
-   _Not Another Teen Movie_ parodies _Cruel Intentions_, where the interest is reversed with the sister agreeing to help him win the bet to get the nerdy girl only if he'll agree to have sex with her after he wins. He objects that they are related and she responds "—only by blood!"

-   _Psycho_ hints at this, but it's not until the prequel that the subtext becomes a textbook case of Freudian Excuse.
-   Implied in _Pitchfork_ when Ben's mom stuffs her hands down the from of her son's pants.
-   Implied with the Largos in _Repo! The Genetic Opera_.
-   _The Rocky Horror Picture Show_: Magenta and Riffraff have _a lot_ of elbow sex.
    
    **Audience line**: Incest is the best, put your sister to the test!
    
-   Heavily implied in both 1932 and 1983 versions of _Scarface_.
-   In _Sleepwalkers_, the titular shapeshifting energy vampires are an incestuous mother and son duo. They are shown to have tons of sex with each other and to feed off the life force of virgin girls. It is said that Charles, the son, feeds his mother Mary through their incestuous sex. They're also implied not to have much choice in partners.
-   _Tamara_: Mr. Riley gets drunk, abuses his daughter Tamara and has sexual fantasies about her daily. It's further implied by Tamara that he's molested her too (or at least wants to).
-   In _That's My Boy_ Donny discovers that his son's fiancee is cheating on him… with her younger brother.

    Folk Tales 

-   Peter Stumpp of Bedburg (the original werewolf) was described as having sex with his daughter. The authorities made sure to execute her as well.
-   In some versions of Arthurian Legend Mordred was the son of King Arthur and his half-sister Morgana (swept under the rug in the musical _Camelot_ but dramatized in the movie _Excalibur_). However, in an inversion of the usual applications of this trope _she_ seduced him (using a disguise spell) as part of her evil plan to avenge his father using a similar spell to have sex with her mother after murdering her father. Villain Vortigern was also incestuous with his daughter.
    -   T. H. White's _The Sword in the Stone_ discusses the possibility that this sin, however unwitting, is what dooms Arthur to such a tragic life. Well, drowning all those children may have had something to do with it, too. While this is usually chalked up as Arthur's greatest sin, it's only one of many sins that bring Camelot down.
    -   In the original legends his incest was with Morgause, his other half-sister. Modern versions often just combine this role with Morgan(a) for simplicity. White's version, though, kept Morgause.
    -   The tales vary on whether Arthur _knows_ she's his sister or half-sister (either Morgan or Morgause), and how consensual it was on his part (given the Bed Trick that is often involved).
-   Part of the demonization of Pope Alexander VI (Rodrigo Borgia) is the continuing rumors that he had sex with his daughter, Lucrezia Borgia. Quite a few historians today are doubtful that this ever happened, placing it in mythology territory.
-   In Scottish folklore, the apocryphal Cannibal Clan leader Sawney Bean is said to have had fourteen children with his equally depraved and vicious lover Agnes Douglas, and those children are said to have had children with each other.

    Literature 

-   Common in the _Alex Delaware_ novels.
-   _And the Ass Saw the Angel_ has an incestuous clan of serial killers living up in the hills. The protagonist's father was a defector from this clan.
-   The Duet, twin rulers of the Seven Kingdoms in Morgan Llywelyn and Michael Scott's _Arcana_ series.
-   The Bathory siblings in _Bloodline (2006)_ are shown to be sexually involved- owing perhaps to their Immortality Immorality.
-   In _A Brother's Price_ this not only serves the purpose of showing how evil the villains are, but also helps the heroes find out that a woman was in bed with her villainous brother in the literal and figurative sense. There's a child.
-   At the end of _The Cat Who Played Post Office_, Qwilleran receives a posthumous letter from Penelope Goodwinter, confessing to a lifelong unrequited love for her brother Alexander that led her to arrange the murder of a poor girl he'd impregnated. She claims in the letter that she expects him to murder her to prevent exposure; Qwilleran realizes in the last paragraph of the book that she committed suicide in such a way as to frame him, in revenge for his deciding to marry someone else.
-   _Chronicles of the Kencyrath_ plays with this trope with Gerridon and Jamethiel. They're the most infamous people in the entire history of their people, and they were twins and consorts. However, this is slowly subverted, because as the story goes on, you learn that incest was traditional and culturally sanctioned in their culture, and doesn't have much to do with their being villainous. And the _heroes_ of the story are shaping up to be twin-cestuous too! The Kencyrath have a... different culture than humans, and these two cases aren't the last incest you hear of. But this trope is pretty averted, and even in cases when incest **is** something horrific, it's portrayed as Rape Is a Special Kind of Evil, not Villainous Incest.
-   Celie's father in _The Color Purple_, although she isn't really his daughter.
-   In _The Crying of Lot 49_, the characters go to see a Jacobean-era revenge play called _The Courier's Tragedy_, whose villains are an incestuous family of aristocrats vying for the throne.
-   _Deerskin_ is built on this trope, being based on the classic fairy tale "Donkeyskin". When the king's wife dies, he promises to only marry someone as beautiful as she. He should have included a "kin excluded" clause. The rest is nothing short of mortifying.
-   In the _Deryni_ series, this is one of the signs that Imre is a depraved tyrant, though the tyranny is only by medieval standards.
-   In _Dracula_, the eponymous vampire has three companions called "sisters": one blonde and two brunettes. The two brunette vampires are described as having facial features similar to Count Dracula. Meanwhile, the blonde bride is described as having authority over the other two. Many readers have speculated that the blonde bride is the mother of the two brunettes and that Dracula is the father.
-   _The Dresden Files_:
    -   Lord Raith of the White Court has the habit of _raping_ his daughters into submission, thus amplifying the evil of this trope by making it non-consensual. He kills his sons for being potential "threats", though, even though this cuts his potential workforce in half. In the end, it's one of his "not a threat" daughters who turns him into a vegetable.
    -   The same daughter who turned the tables on Lord Raith, Lara, later rapes her cousin Madeline to death while continuously ripping out her innards in _Turn Coat_.
    -   Nicodemus and his daughter Deirdre have been lovers for thousands of years. She talks about it in more detail in _Skin Game_, claiming that their relationship started completely platonic, and it was only when both of them had been working together as partners for several centuries that they started to see each other as equal lovers instead of father and daughter. Harry, while still disgusted, finds it difficult to refute her assertion that their relationship is much deeper and stronger than any of the conventional romances he's had, and it serves as a strangely humanizing moment for two unrepentant villains. Of course, this makes their mutual willingness for Nicodemus to kill her to accomplish his goals all the more shocking, and even after this final leap over the Moral Event Horizon, Harry provoking him with his memories of her is enough to break his usual self-control.
-   In _Dune_, Baron Vladimir Harkonnen openly ogles his nephew Feyd-Rautha (which both the 1984 movie and 2000 miniseries play up for all that it's worth) and he also harbors an attraction to Paul Atreides (who, it turns out, is his grandson). The _Dune Encyclopedia_ suggests that the Baron and Feyd had a sexual relationship, and strongly implies that he had sex with his mother before strangling her.
-   In _The Elenium_, it is fairly common knowledge that the late King Aldreas had a sexual relationship with his sister Arissa, though they weren't so much evil as sickeningly depraved.
-   In _Elric of Melniboné_, The Evil Prince Yyrkoon is described as "openly lusting after his sister Cymoril". Apparently, it's justified (among other things) by norms that allow incestuous royal marriages, but even the decadent Melniboneans feel it's slightly wrong for Yyrkoon to look forward to marrying his sister. Cymoril is also a love interest for Elric, and though Elric and Cymoril are cousins, this is not presented as wrong.
-   In _The Fifth Sorceress_, the Face–Heel Turn of Shailiha is made explicit when she makes passes at her captive brother, though she doesn't actually get a chance to rape him.
-   The novelization of _Flash Gordon (1980)_ includes a small scene of Ming and Aura pleasurably reminiscing about the most recent time they had (BDSM-heavy) sex together... eeeeeep.
-   Averted in _Forbidden_, where the Brother–Sister Incest is told through the Sympathetic P.O.V. of the heroes, both of whom are equal participants over the age of consent and do nothing remotely abusive to each other. They struggle with their feelings a lot, but they are unable to find any solid reasons why their love should be considered so wrong, and their romantic relationship is much closer and healthier than most teenagers despite being birthed by the same mother.
-   Mason Verger in the book but not The Film of the Book _Hannibal_.
-   In _Harry Potter_, some particularly elitist pureblood families will only allow their members to marry fellow purebloods. As the years pass on, there are fewer people to select before they have to cross the incest taboo. By the late twentieth century, most pureblood families are closely related to each other.
    -   According to _Pottermore_, the Noble and Most Ancient House of Black supported inbreeding. They actually avert this if you only look at their known family tree, which dates back to 1845. The closest incest mentioned is the marriage between Sirius' parents, second cousins Orion and Walburga, which is perfectly legal everywhere. That's not to say the Black family hasn't practiced more inbreeding in the past, though. Furthermore, Walburga's pairing serves to indicate how she was rabidly elitist even by her family's standards.
    -   The Lestranges are also mentioned in _Pottermore_ to tolerate inbreeding.
    -   Averted with the Malfoys, who are plenty evil but explicitly reject incest. If there is no alternative, they will resort to marriage with half-bloods to maintain genetic diversity.
    -   The House of Gaunt is an extreme example. They not only proscribed marriages with half-bloods and Muggle-borns but even discouraged marriages to other purebloods. As the last descendants of Salazar Slytherin (from whom they inherited the ability to talk to snakes) and one of the last remnants of the Peverell family (the others being the Potters), they wanted to keep their inheritance in-family, which meant frequently marrying cousins, leading to a strain of mental instability. The last three members who carried the family name were a delusional old hick and his children, an Ax-Crazy boy, and a depressed girl. The daughter, Merope, defied her family's traditions and married a local Muggle—albeit through a Love Potion, making their son Tom Marvolo Riddle a Child by Rape. By doing this, Merope allowed Tom—later Voldemort—to become one of the most powerful wizards of all time instead of being pathetically inbred.
-   _I, Claudius_: The only reason Nero was even emperor is that his mother married the emperor Claudius—her _uncle._ Claudius was the first man in Roman history to marry his niece and had to change the law to permit the union. Agrippina (the niece Claudius married) was also one of Caligula's sisters, by the way. In Paul L. Maier's historical novel _The Flames of Rome_, Nero's wife chews him out for his part in the affair, specifically pointing out that incest was apparently an old habit with her: "How old was she when her brother Caligula first seduced her, twelve!?"
-   In the first _Inspector Mc Levy_ novel _The Shadow of the Serpent_, the assassin known as the Serpent is sleeping with his illegitimate daughter. However, the daughter is the one who instigated the relationship as a means of controlling her father. Needless to say, both are thoroughly screwed-up and evil people.
-   Non-consensual incestuous relationships figure in the backstories of several Dean Koontz characters, such as in _The Bad Place_, _Whispers_, _Life Expectancy_, and _What the Night Knows_.
-   At one point in _Lolita,_ Humbert Humbert fantasizes about siring a daughter with his adoptive daughter, then a granddaughter with said daughter, and so on. Despite the Misaimed Fandom, Nabokov definitely intended Humbert to cross the Moral Event Horizon.
-   In the _Lymond Chronicles_ by Dorothy Dunnett, the arch-villain Gabriel has a relationship with his sister Joleta.
-   _Malus Darkblade_: The main character comes from a Big, Screwed-Up Family of sadistic, treacherous, power-hungry monsters (or just Dark Elves for short), and the incestuous relations between the siblings is the least of their misdeeds. The oldest brother openly consorts with his sister, when he's not in the high seas pillaging, youngest brother lusts for the same sister, and Malus himself shares the bed with his half-sister.
-   Eleanor Prentiss Iselin of _The Manchurian Candidate_. The novel includes frank mentions of consummated incest, both between Eleanor and her father Tyler and between her and her son Raymond (whose consent is dubious given his brainwashing), and both film versions show Eleanor coming on to Raymond. Eleanor figures as a villain in both the novel and the original film version. In the second adaptation/remake, she's a likable character who does horrible things with good intentions. In all three works, the incestuous element is definitely used to enhance her creepiness.
-   Mercedes Lackey uses this trope regularly, often but not always in extremely nonconsensual contexts.
    -   The _Heralds of Valdemar_:
        -   In _Arrow's Flight_, Talia has to figure out how to handle a situation where a man has been raping his stepdaughters and murdered the elder for trying to escape him. The solution she reaches may end someday if he learns something, and she fully believes that his community will then kill him.
        -   Much of the plot of _Oathbreakers_ has Tarma and Kethry trying to find the whereabouts of Idalia, a princess who renounced her place in succession. Her brother, on being crowned king, decided to keep her from interfering and imprisoned and raped her. She killed herself. The rest of the book is dedicated to Revenge.
        -   Mornelithe Falconsbane and his daughter Nyara are introduced in _Winds of Fate_. He's an ancient Evil Sorceror who's become a Familial Body Snatcher to survive, in a gradually degrading state, for two thousand years. She's his toy, the test for any body modifications he's considering using on himself, and has been Mind Raped into feeling a twisted mixture of hatred and love for him. After The Dog Bites Back and she gets away and has time and help to adjust and become more independent, she sheds the 'love' entirely and gets down to attempting Patricide.
    -   _When The Bough Breaks_, one of the _SERR Ated Edge_ series, has a child who's been molested by her father since she was two or three years old. As you might expect, he's that book's Big Bad.
    -   In _The Obsidian Trilogy_, cowritten with James Mallory, Demon Queen Savilla and her son Zyperis frequently engage in sexual activity and express how attractive they find each other.
-   Matthew Lewis both plays it straight and subverts it in _The Monk_. Played straight when the title character, Ambrosio, is driven by his lust for the innocent Antonia tries and fails to seduce her then rapes and kills her. The Devil was after his soul. Subverted when he learns to his horror that Antonia was his _long lost younger sister._ It's too late by that point because the Devil had convinced Ambrosio to sell his soul to him to escape punishment for Antonia's rape and murder.
-   In the Alternate History novel _Moon of Ice_ by Brad Linaweaver, Nazi propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels Has a Type which happens to be just like his Really Gets Around daughter Hilda. However, after noting this in his diary, he forcefully dismisses the idea.
-   In _The Mortal Instruments,_ the second Big Bad, Sebastian, very obviously wants to hook up with his sister, Clary. Then again, the series kind of sends mixed messages since Clary thought that her Love Interest, Jace, was her brother for two books; it was used for angst, but Jace, at least, made it clear that he was still willing to have a Secret Relationship with her.
-   Terah Graesin and her brother Luc, from the _The Night Angel Trilogy_.
-   Leo Friend, one of the villains in Tim Powers' _On Stranger Tides_, lusts after Beth Hurwood as a surrogate for his own mother. Technically applies to Beth's father, who plans to oust Beth's spirit from her body so her mother's ghost can move in, although he's so out of touch with reality that the incestuous implications may honestly never have crossed his mind.
-   _Paradise Lost_ uses this as part of an extended allegory of Christian beliefs. Satan has sex with his daughter Sin, who sprang out of his head when he came up with the notion of rebelling against God. Their resulting offspring is Death.
-   _Garrett, P.I.: In_ Red Iron Nights'', the serial-killer curse was created by a long-ago evil sorcerer who'd been rejected by an equally evil sorceress, in favor of her own father.
-   _The Ringmaster_ by David Gurr gets philosophical about this trope—it sets up one of these between a Nazi and his sister and uses it as something of a metaphor for just how screwed up Those Wacky Nazis were.
-   _Second Apocalypse_:
    -   Ikurei Istriya has a sexual relationship with both her son, the treacherous Emperor Ikurei Xerius, and her nephew, the equally treacherous Prince Ikurei Conphas.
    -   Anasûrimbor Serwa and Anasûrimbor Moenghus are revealed to be lovers despite officially being half-siblings, though, in reality, they share no blood relation. When Sorweel discovers their secret, they also reveal that they're far crueler than he had originally thought.
-   _A Song of Ice and Fire_:
    -   Jaime and Cersei Lannister engage in twincest, which is revealed as an Establishing Character Moment. Although with the series' Grey-and-Gray Morality, they're villain-_ish_ rather than full-on villain-_ous_. However, Jaime becomes less villainous over time as he grows apart from his sister, while Cersei becomes more villainous. She also goes on to seduce her teenage cousin Lancel, with Jaime, who has always been faithful to her, feeling just as deeply betrayed as if an unrelated partner cheated on him. Jaime and Cersei, however, are an unusual example of this trope, and might even be interpreted as a deconstruction; even when they're at their worst, their love for each other and the children born of their incest is humanizing for both of them and is Cersei's single redeeming feature. Also, their justified fear of being caught and killed along with their children is one of the things that pushes them to some of their worst acts—"The things I do for love,"—and they (especially Jaime) would likely be a lot less villainous if their lives weren't endangered by their feelings for each other. Finally, their villain credentials are firmly established through their willingness to murder children and other innocent people, while Cersei gets noticeably worse for reasons totally unrelated to her relationship with Jaime, making their incest almost a separate issue from their morality, and as it drives many of the events of the books it is certainly treated as more than a quick shorthand for showing how evil they are.
    -   The Targaryen family has a long history of incest, often matching siblings together to keep the bloodline pure. The dynasty produced several mad and villainous people, the most notable to the series being Aerys II, "The Mad King." That said, not all the Targaryens were evil; Jaehaerys I, who married his sister Alysanne, being considered one of the best Kings Westeros ever had.
    -   Euron "Crow's Eye" Greyjoy is implied to have molested his younger brother Aeron, who despises and fears him, and still has nightmares of a creaking hinge when Euron visited him at night.
    -   Craster and his wives, who are also his daughters.
-   As the _SPQR Series_ by John Maddox Roberts gives Historical Villain Upgrades to Publius Clodius Pulcher and his sister Clodia, the protagonist regularly assumes that their relationship is sexual, as their enemies claimed in real life. For their part, they deny it.
-   _Sword of Truth_: While not outright stated, this is heavily implied to be taking place between Tobias and Lunetta Brogan, as she casts glamours regularly on his behalf it seems.
-   _Tales of Kolmar_: Marik of Gundar never actually has sex with his long-lost (heroic) daughter, but he's not above seducing her into thinking him harmless and attractive with the help of demon-made charms. She doesn't know he's her father at the time, but he definitely thinks it's possible and doesn't even hesitate.
-   _Tolkien's Legendarium_:
    -   In _The Fall of Gondolin_, Maeglin lusts after his cousin Idril. His feelings are unreciprocated, partly due to the Noldorin incest taboo, partly because she marries someone else. Later, Maeglin betrays the location of the formerly hidden city to Morgoth in exchange for lordship and possession of Idril.
    -   _The Silmarillion_: In _The Fall of Númenor_, Ar-Pharazôn becomes the last king of Númenor by marrying the late king's daughter against her will. She's his first cousin. Pharazôn's ego and disregard for traditions simply made it that much easier for Sauron to corrupt him into Melkor-worship. Pharazôn had no legal right to the throne and marrying Míriel did not actually give it to him. He simply used it as a pretext. There are multiple versions of this. In some of JRRT's versions, Tal-Palantír's daughter is infatuated with Pharazôn (who by all accounts was likable in his youth) and marries him consensually, and hands him the _de facto_ control of the Sceptre. In others, he takes her to himself against her will and seizes the Sceptre with the approval of the general public (who by then were mostly corrupted). This is the latest version so is probably what Tolkien eventually intended.
-   _The Virgin Widow_: Anne Neville's first mother-in-law Margaret of Anjou is insistent, to the point of humiliating Anne, that the marriage to her son not be consummated. Everyone assumes her motives are political but Anne witnesses a moment of unnatural affection between Margaret and her son that chills her. She never tells anyone, not even her second husband, what she saw.
-   _Vorkosigan Saga_: In the backstory of _A Civil Campaign_, Richars attempts this on a 12-year-old Lady Donna. She manages to fight him off, so he drowns her puppy in retaliation. Nobody believes her, and this among many other similar crimes is why she's determined not to allow him to inherit the distract.
-   Ashfur from _Warrior Cats_ is actually Squirrelflight's uncle through her mother, though this isn't mentioned in the text. Ashfur attempted to kill Squirrelflight's kits and her mate in jealousy.
-   Duchess Alicia in _The Waters Rising_ by Sheri S. Tepper clearly lusts after her father who, unknown to her is not actually her father and has relations with her half-brother and the Old Dark Man who actually is her father, although she thinks he might be her grandfather.
-   In his Wold Newton universe, Philip José Farmer suggests that Carl Peterson (archfoe of Bulldog Drummond) and his lover Irma (who sometimes posed as his daughter) were, in fact, father and daughter. A later version of the Wold Newton family tree establishes Peterson and Irma as uncle and niece.

    Live-Action TV 

-   Played with in the _Adam Adamant Lives!_ episode "The Doomsday Plan". When Doctor Mort's daughter kisses him in a most un-daughterly fashion, Adam is clearly shocked and objects that he is is her father. The girl then laughs and says she is not really his daughter, but that she just plays the role as the public has expectations.
-   _Battlestar Galactica (2003)_: After erasing her true memories, John Cavil knowingly fraks the scientist who considers herself his mother and created him in the image of her father for extra squick.
-   _Blue Heelers_ pulls this a couple of times, one where a father _**shoots his own daughter**_ because he wanted to keep her to himself. Another had recurring psycho Luke Darcy rape his own grandmother in his final appearance.
-   On _The Borgias_: there is a lot of Incest Subtext between Cesare and Lucrezia, but it's treated more as pure love than sexual chemistry. That said, Cesare is most definitely a Villain Protagonist, and his obsession with Lucrezia has led him to murder once already. In season 3, they have sex and Cesare's fixation on his sister leads to him murdering her husband and declaring Lucrezia "his". When someone makes a sarcastic comment about how much he loves his sister, he only replies, "too much".
-   _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_:
    -   Part of Spike's back story is that he was a Momma's Boy when he was alive and that after turning into a vampire he spread it to her so that she could live forever. However, losing her soul sort of made her a less friendly person, and she mocked him by claiming that he wanted to go "back inside," trying to seduce him. Spike was so freaked out that he staked her. The fact that she was named Anne, which is also Buffy's middle name, is not coincidental.
    -   A more metaphorical example in the Buffyverse would be vampires in general. Apparently, some vampires seek out people to turn into their eternal partner, but since that involves "siring" them, it could be seen as a kind of incest. Darla sired Angelus, and they were a couple (as well as villains) for several hundred years; Angelus sired Drusilla, who calls him "daddy" at one point but also "my Angel"—and they have definitely slept together; Drusilla sired Spike and Spike also refer to Angel as his "grandsire" at one point. And, according to Word of God, they have slept together at least once.
-   Brother Justin from _Carnivàle_ and his sister Iris have a very, er, _close_ relationship with each other. And did we mention he's the father of The Antichrist? And _then_ it turns out that Sofie, the Crowe's new maid—after they lost the last three to, basically, Justin raping them into insanity—is actually his long-lost daughter. Which, through a convoluted series of events, only Iris actually realizes, and, despite Justin being all over the girl, hasn't actually told anyone yet. Worse yet: Word of God said that if the series had continued, Sofie would have married Justin and had a child. Although it wouldn't have been clear whether the child was Justin's or Ben's.
-   _CSI_:
    -   One episode dealt with the murders of a husband and wife, and their two sons, but their two daughters survived unharmed. Over the course of the investigation, we find out that the father had been sexually assaulting the older daughter from a young age. This "relationship" resulted in her getting pregnant at 13 and giving birth to the younger daughter. When Dad started abusing the younger daughter, the older one arranged for a friend to break into the house and kill the family - the father for abusing them, and the rest of the family for never doing anything to try and stop him.
    -   The episode "Table Stakes" has a pair of con artists who are running benefits in the house of a famous retired showgirl who is out of town on a trip of Europe... and then a woman shows up dead in the pool at one benefit. Not only is she the dead lover of the male con artist, and not only did they bump off the showgirl and feed her to her piranhas, but they're brother and sister... and the team definitely run into them having sex. In a flashback, the brother's lover confronts the sister about the "act," but the sister says it's all real.
-   In _Defiance_, Kindzi and her father T'evgin share a lot of deep kisses. It's been implied by other Votan characters that incest is common among the Omecs. That said, Kindzi is villainous enough to disturb even other Omec, while T'evgin eventually proves to be a pretty good guy.
-   _Forever Knight_. Divia, a child vampire who turned her father LaCroix, proposed this rather forcefully to him. Even though LaCroix is a Fully-Embraced Fiend this is too much. The incestuous overtones are increased by the fact that one's vampire sire is a Parental Substitute.
    
    **Divia:** Daughter, mother, lover—why not all three?
    
-   _Game of Thrones_:
    -   Twins Cersei and Jamie Lannister's sexual relationship is at the heart of much of the plot, although "villainous" is not so straightforward in this series. Jaime and Cersei, however, are an unusual example of this trope, and might even be interpreted as a deconstruction; even when they're at their worst, their love for each other and the children born of their incest is humanizing for both of them and is Cersei's single redeeming feature. Also, their justified fear of being caught and killed along with their children is one of the things that pushes them to some of their worst acts, and they (especially Jaime,) would likely be a lot less villainous if their lives weren't endangered by their feelings for each other. Finally, their villain credentials are firmly established through their willingness to murder children and other innocent people, while Cersei gets noticeably worse for reasons totally unrelated to her relationship with Jaime, making their incest almost a separate issue from their morality, and as it drives many of the events of the books it is certainly treated as more than a quick shorthand for showing how evil they are. Notably, Jaime repeatedly says "we don't get to choose who we love," and nobody can actually refute it as an argument.
    -   Viserys Targaryen is established as villainous when he undresses and fondles his sister, but the Targaryen dynasty has produced everything from The Good King to The Caligula regardless of marrying their siblings.
    -   Craster, who practices forced Parental Incest.
-   _Gotham_: Siblings Theo and Tabitha Galavan, who are plotting to take over Gotham, are all but stated to be involved in _that_ way. They don't even kiss onscreen, but Tabitha makes a Sarcastic Confession that Theo is "great in the sack" when a random (and clueless) socialite walks up to them. It's also unclear if they're half-siblings or Not Blood Siblings, as Tabitha is biracial.
-   In _House of Cards (UK),_ it's subtly hinted that Francis Urquhart secretly wants to do this. After the elderly Urquhart begins an affair with the young Mattie Storin, and she starts calling him "Daddy," he tells her, "I always wanted to be a father of daughters."
-   Exploited in the _How to Get Away with Murder_ episode "It's Called the Octopus". The prosecution introduces Caleb and Catherine Hapstall's alleged incestuous affair as evidence that they killed their parents.
-   The entire Mc Poyle family from _It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia_ can be considered an inbred and deplorable family. The main two, Liam and Ryan are introduced, not just by falsely accusing their old high school gym teacher of being a sexual predator as petty revenge, but also both of them exiting the shower together. It is actually a family tradition to sleep with and marry off other family members to prevent others from tainting their gene pool. Liam, however, convinces Ryan that after years of incest, it won't be them getting their gene pool tainted by others, but them tainting the gene pool of other families.
-   _Law & Order: Special Victims Unit_ is probably the series where the trope shows up the most.
    -   In "Pique", Grace Mayberry molested her son Jason since he was a kid and has brainwashed him into believing he's a willing participant - which allows their sexual relationship to go on until he's well in his thirties. This has turned Jason into a serial killer and stalker.
    -   In "Damaged", abuse victim Missy was pimped out by her abusive father to his friends and molested her younger adopted sister.
    -   In a 2003 episode, "Dominance", Charlie Baker is said to have raped his brother, Billy, alongside convincing him to participate in a brutal killing spree.
    -   In "Taboo", a college student has dumped two of her newborn babies after convincing herself she wasn't pregnant. It turns out she and her Corrupt Politician father had a consensual sexual relationship, although they were separated since she was young, and he fathered the kids. Although he claims not to know about the babies.
    -   In a 2010 episode, a pedophile maintains the perfect cover by leading an activist group that works to expose and shame known sex offenders. It's revealed at the end of the episode that his Start of Darkness was raping his nine-year-old sister when he was a teenager.
    -   And then there's the brother-sister Con Artist team who engage in twincest on the side in "Bombshell".
-   _The League of Gentlemen_. Although it's not revealed until partway through season 2 that Serial Killers Tubbs and Edward are brother and sister, it doesn't really come as much of a surprise.
-   Vincent/Valerie of _Passions_, the intersexed child of Julian Crane and Eve Russell, rapes his half-sister twice, has an affair with his uncle Chad, and _seduces his own father and becomes pregnant by him_. This last situation prompts the immortal line, "Have your baby so I can get back to drinking," as said by Julian to his child/lover as Vincent delivers their offspring.
-   Added to William and Regan Hamleigh in the miniseries adaptation of _The Pillars of the Earth_, because apparently, they weren't villainous enough already.
-   Jim Profit, Villain Protagonist of _Profit_ has a sexual relationship with his mother, although she is his stepmother and they are not actually related by blood.
-   The evil Earth-2 version of Clark on _Smallville_ (in an Alternate Universe in which he was found and raised by Lionel Luthor instead of the Kents) has a sexual relationship with his adoptive sister Tess. Although it's a case of Not Blood Siblings; they were raised together since birth and he refers to her as "sis."
-   _Supernatural_:
    -   In Season 13, Anael and Lucifer's sexual relationship technically counts as this, as they're both angels and therefore siblings, although the show doesn't really touch on it.
-   Played for drama and horror on _Twin Peaks_, when Leland Palmer is revealed to have sexually abused his daughter Laura for years before finally murdering her, all under the demonic influence of BOB.

-   _The X-Files_ episode "Home", about an Inbred and Evil family of serial killers.

    Multiple Media 

-   MonsterVerse: Inverted by the MUTOs who mate up and lay a clutch of eggs. They're implied in _Godzilla (2014)_ to be brother and sister, having both hatched from spores laid inside the same dead Kaiju, and the tie-in graphic novel _Godzilla: Aftershock_ more or less _confirms_ this is the case. Regardless, their Headbutt of Love when they meet up to mate and Femuto's devotion to their resulting babies are two of the sweetest things about these otherwise-destructive creatures throughout their screentime.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   The "sexual chocolate" angle in the World Wrestling Federation which saw Mark Henry betray D'Lo Brown went back to an event where Henry had sex with his sister, which was his Freudian excuse.
-   In WCW, Vince Russo wanted to reveal Miss Hancock as the illegitimate daughter of Ric Flair, then have her date Flair's legitimate son David. In the end, he got the relationship, but not the incest.
-   Averted in WWE in 2006. When Stephanie McMahon was pregnant with her first child, Vince McMahon wanted to do an angle where he would be revealed as the baby's father, but she refused to do it. Undaunted, Vince then suggested Shane McMahon (Vince's son/Stephanie's brother) would be the baby's father, but both of his kids said no to the idea. He would later get his incest storyline with Paul and Katie Lea Burchill.

    Religion & Mythology 

-   The Bible:
    -   Lot's daughters, who raped their father, which is said to have produced the Moabites and Ammonites with whom the Israelites had frequent wars. Many consider this a vilification of these rival tribes, though various arguments in The Talmud go back and forth on whether one should consider Lot or his daughters the villains for their part in this; this being partial because the much-admired matriarch Ruth was a Moabite, so the Davidic line (which goes all the way to Jesus Christ, if you accept the New Testament) also descends from Lot and his daughters. Some also contend that since this descent comes only from the female side of the line, any lingering legacy of shame associated with this incident isn't heritable.
    -   Not everyone is sure what happened between Noah and his son Ham in a certain tent either, though many think it was this due to Noah's rather vindictive curse against him and particularly Ham's son Canaan (possibly for putting him up to it).
    -   Same thing goes for Tamar and her half-brother Amnon in 2 Samuel. He lusted for her so much that he managed to rape her in his quarters. Boy, did he pay dearly for that…
    -   Implied in Leviticus chapters 18 and 20. Both of these chapters have laws against incest (18:6-14, 20:17), and both of them end declaring that these sins are what inspire God to punish the Canaanites (18:24, 20:23). The Canaanites are the villains of later parts of the Bible, like in the Book of Joshua.
-   The accusation of incest with their mother has been levelled against many Roman emperors, but the primary source for this is _Twelve Caesars_ by Suetonious, a writer who in some circles is thought of as a gossip columnist rather than a historian. It has been pointed out that Suetonious was not above spicing up a scroll on a safely-dead Emperor with embellished details, partly for the money and partly at the political behest of new rulers looking to discredit the old. Therefore a case can be made for at least some of the incest allegations to be treated as fabulous or just made up, however sociopathic that emperor might otherwise have been.

    Tabletop Games 

-   A few _BattleTech_ examples that takes some explaining:
    -   Former Archon Katherine Steiner-Davion was deposed by an alliance led by her brother after she usurped the regency of her sister and cracked down on her critics in an increasingly tyrannical manner. She was remanded over to Khan Vlad Ward of Clan Wolf, a society that reproduces via Designer Babies. Growing increasingly hostile and vengeful towards the Inner Sphere houses, including her own, she eventually _stole her own brother's DNA to create a genetically incestuous child_ just so she could raise him to re-ignite a war between the Clans and the Inner Sphere. No, Victor had no input on this (especially considering he was murdered before he ever found out about it), and no one has any idea how she managed to acquire his DNA, either. God Save Us from the Queen!.
    -   The Clans in general are an antagonist faction (the setting runs on Gray-and-Grey Morality with no clear heroes and very few clear villains), and because of their eugenics program and Designer Babies using Uterine Replicators they don't have the same concepts of sexual fidelity, romance, or relations. Clan Trueborn are raised in sibkos (sibling companies) all made from the same combination of DNA from the best warriors of the previous generation. As the members of the sibko come of age, it's considered completely natural and acceptable for them to explore their biological urges with each other. This tends to disgust the people of the Inner Sphere, raised in more traditional families.
    -   Aleksandr and Malvina Hazen are members of the same sibko, and have a relationship creepily close _by Clan standards_, pretty much only coupling with each other, referring to each other as "brother" and "sister" when Clan warriors tend to find familial terms repulsive, and having a playful competetive streak. Aleks is at best a Knight Templar and Pragmatic Villain, Malvina is a full-blown Omnicidal Maniac.
-   The Whateley Family in _Deadlnds_ is an extended family of sorcerous hucksters. They have made pacts with horrors, and some of their family are not fully human. The heads of some branches of the family are both husband and wife and brother and sister.
-   The _Dungeons & Dragons_ supplement the **Book of Vile Darkness** introduces Fierna the Lord of the Fourth Layer of the Nine Hells and her father, the former ruler of the Fourth, Belial. Their relationship has continued into the Fourth Edition.
    -   Zaiden, the most powerful cleric to the demon lord Yeenoghu, murdered her mother and took her father as her mate. At least for a little while. When she got bored of him she killed him too.
-   In _Vampire: The Masquerade_, one of the 13 vampire clans are the Giovanni. In addition to being necrophiliac Necromancers and members of The Mafia, they are also one big extended family… and really, _really_ dedicated to "keeping it in the family". Then there are the spiritual descendants, the Sangiovanni bloodline, in _Requiem_, who are just as devoted to necromancy, necrophilia, and inbreeding.
    -   This is prevalent in pretty much all Clans in the setting, and most vampire fiction, for that matter. As the game points out, one vampire turning another results in some complicated relationships, especially when vampire feeding is comparable to sex, and feeding is part of turning someone into a vampire. How much any given vampire relationship mingles the "parent/child" and "lover" dynamics is generally a good indicator of how messed up at least one of the vampires in question are. To a lesser extent, vampires made by the same vampire can be comparable to siblings, though very rarely actually related, and if the technical/metaphysical sibling relationship is brought up in addition to a romantic/sexual one those particular vampires probably aren't all that closely tethered to humanity.
-   _Warhammer_':
    -   Malekith, Witch King of the Dark Elves, was (in early editions) rumored to have an incestuous relationship with his mother, the Hag Sorceress Morathi. Though this has never been confirmed (and the subtext was dropped from later editions), and given that Malekith has been sealed within his magic armor for the last six and a half thousand years it is unlikely that anything too physical could have happened anyway. That being said, incest, while not ubiquitous, isn't too uncommon in Dark Elf society.
    -   There is a real incident of Villainous Incest in the game. A tribal warlord had a son with his own sister, this son would become the depraved champion of Slaanesh, Sigvald the Magnificent. Sigvald is so bad that even his own creepy-ass dad couldn't stand him.

    Theatre 

-   In _Hamlet_, the primary villain Claudius marries Gertrude, his brother's widow. While this is perfectly acceptable and even expected in some cultures, some Renaissance Europeans believed married couples to truly be one flesh, and therefore considered siblings-in-law to be equivalent to full siblings, and saw this as incestuous. Not that this stopped Henry VIII from marrying the widow of his brother Arthur with the Catholic Church's assent, Catherine claiming Arthur was too ill to consummate the marriage. Though he later used it as an excuse to divorce her. Some historians have seen the parallels between Claudius and Henry as quite deliberate Reality Subtext, since suggesting - even by proxy - that Henry's marriage to Catherine was sinful and invalid means that his later marriage to Anne Boleyn _was_ valid, and, therefore, that Anne and Henry's daughter, Elizabeth I - who was queen at the time, and whose goodwill Shakespeare would definitely want - had a legitimate claim to the throne.
-   In _Natasha, Pierre, and the Great Comet of 1812_, it's vaguely implied between Helene and Anatole Kuragin.
-   Antiochus and his (unnamed) daughter in William Shakespeare's _Pericles, Prince of Tyre_. For some reason, her Engagement Challenge is a riddle whose answer is "Antiochus and his daughter are committing incest." Not a conventional Engagement Challenge, though—they're usually honored even when they're meant to be impossible, but Antiochus hasn't the slightest intention of honoring this one. The terms of the challenge mean that getting it wrong equals death, but it's made very clear that, for the sake of the king's own safety, getting it right _also_ equals death. The hero of the play, Pericles, is a guy who gets it right and is being pursued by Antiochus' assassins, although later in the play, he learns that the heat is off: Antiochus and his daughter have exploded in a display of divine punishment. One of Shakespeare's weirder plays.
-   Shakespeare's _Richard III_ plans to secure himself on the throne by marrying his niece (the daughter of Richard's brother, King Edward IV). In the play, he has his wife killed so that he can do so, although in history she seems to have died of natural causes. Also in actual history, he was planning to marry that niece off to a distant (literally) cousin.

    Video Games 

-   In the Interactive Fiction story _Anchorhead_ this is the dark secret of your husband's family.
-   Used in _Assassin's Creed II_, which repeats the predecessor's habit of giving each assassination target a Kick the Dog moment just to reassure you it's okay to kill them. This is one of the black marks against Big Bad Rodrigo Borgia, who is implied to have a sexual relationship with his daughter. Confirmed in the sequel, with the villainy extended to his son, Cesare.
-   Cesare and Lucrezia in _Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood_; the game even opens up with them kissing during the assault on the Assassin's compound. When Cesare is arrested for his crimes, one of them listed is incest.
-   In _Baldur's Gate III_, Psycho Knife Nut Orin the Red was the granddaughter of Sarevok, the Bhaalspawn Big Bad of the first game. It's implied Sarevok fathered her with his daughter, and he states he "loved" her the same way.
-   _BlazBlue_:
    -   Resident jerkass Jin Kisaragi has so much creepy Ho Yay subtext with his brother, Ragna the Bloodedge, that it strains the limits of a T-rated game. If that's not enough, his theme music is titled "Lust Sin". This is made fun of a lot in the games' story mode.
    -   In Ragna's ending, there's v-13, a clone of his sister, penetrating him with a sword with all sorts of suggestive dialogue.
-   _City of Heroes_: Tyrant and Dominatrix (Evil Counterparts to Statesman and Ms. Liberty) had Grandparental Incest behind the development team's back. It has since been retconned out of the story after it was pointed out. It was vaguely hinted at to be happening — largely for Squick reasons — back when the Praetorians were simply Evil Counterparts to the signature heroes. Now that they're morally ambiguous and important characters in their own right, it would be out of place.
-   Also heavily implied between the antagonists, the Scissortwins, and the Big Bad Dick Hamilton to both his daughter Nancy and granddaughter, the protagonist Alyssa (who looks like her mother), in _Clock Tower 3_.
-   Junko Enoshima and Mukuro Ikusaba of _Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc_ are an interesting case, as it's not even hinted at in the game they're introduced. Subtext appears in the what-if light novel _Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc IF_. It then becomes much more explicit in _Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School_, with Mukuro being quite submissive and blushing whenever insulted by Junko, before Junko violently pulls it out of subtext and into text by slapping Mukuro on the butt (knocking Mukuro to the ground) and doing un-advertiser friendly things to Mukuro with a boot through Mukuro's skirt. It is not depicted as a healthy relationship at all, as Junko essentially treats Mukuro as a Sex Slave of sorts.
-   This trope shows up disturbingly often in _Danganronpa V3: Killing Harmony_'s villains:
    -   For the most part, Monokuma and his Monokubs have a darkly hilarious, if a little abusive relationship. Then there's Monophanie, who licks back when her father is licking her and her siblings clean and later gets pregnant by her brother Monotaro. Monotaro at least has the excuse of being a Forgetful Jones who forgot the two of them were related, but Monophanie doesn't. She eventually suffers Death by Childbirth when the baby turns out to be a giant insect that stabs Gonta to death.
    -   It's revealed in the aftermath of the third trial that the murderer, Korekiyo Shinguji, had a sexual relationship with his sister until her untimely death. Said death drove him _completely batshit insane_, to the point where he became a Serial Killer hell-bent on sending 100 "friends" to keep her company in the afterlife. It's implied that Korekiyo's sister was his Living Emotional Crutch, as he manifests a Tulpa of her to help himself calm down when he's accused and starts losing it.
    -   It seems rather downplayed at first compared to the previous two examples, but Tsumugi fantasizes about being Not Blood Siblings with Shuichi during her Love Suite event. Then it's revealed that not only is she the Big Bad, but she's responsible for keeping the Immoral Reality Show the characters are trapped in going and helped tamper with the others' memories. This might imply that Korekiyo's Brother–Sister Incest was _written into the show by her_, making it an In-Universe form of Author Appeal. Ewww.
-   _Dead Rising 2_ has the Depraved Bisexual twins Amber and Crystal Bailey, who are among the conspirators who triggered the Fortune City zombie outbreak and constantly feel each other up.
-   It is very implied between Weiss and Nero from _Dirge of Cerberus_. And at the ending Nero merges with Weiss to free him from Hojo, making them become one.
-   Maven Black-Briar of _The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim_ is head of a family that includes Hemming, Ingun, and Sibbi Black-Briar. Hemming is indisputably her son. He may mention in conversation that Ingun and Sibbi are his children; Maven is listed in the Creation Kit as their grandmother. However, Maven explicitly calls Ingun her "favorite daughter", and both Ingun and Sibbi refer to her as their mother. Maven has no husband; Hemming has no wife. It's not hard to do the math, especially since both kids sound like Borgia expys - Sibbi is in prison for a murder even his mother/grandmother found unnecessarily heinous (though more from the bad publicity than the act itself), while Ingun, _the only remotely pleasant member of the family_, is fascinated by alchemy and its more lethal applications.
-   The residents of Andale in _Fallout 3_. It says a lot about the world of Fallout that the incestuous family tree _isn't_ the town's Dark Secret.
-   Shinji Matou of _Fate/stay night_ has repeatedly raped his adopted sister, Sakura. In one of the game's routes, this comes back to haunt him in a big way.
-   _Fire Emblem: Genealogy of the Holy War_, has this. Arvis and his half-sister Deirdre. In fact, it's a major point in the Big Bad's plot to have the two marry and breed, so he could create a vessel for a Dark God. _And it happens_. To be fair, by that point not only neither knew it… but Deirdre was Brainwashed and Crazy. Arvis _did_ find out eventually, but he'd gone through such a Trauma Conga Line by that point that he was far beyond caring. (And their Dark God Vessel Kid was already born, with his twin sister as the inheritor of _another_ bloodline and on the side of good.)
    -   On the other hand, other incestuous relationships aren't seen in **such** bad light. Lachesis was in Unrequited Love with her half-brother Eldigan, whereas Claud and Sylvia are hinted to be either long-lost siblings or distant cousins (Word of God says it's the latter), and they were all good guys. In the second generation Lester and Lana can marry their cousins Patty and Faval (with the bonus that their moms, Adean and Briggid, were _identical twin sisters_), while Larcei is one of the most likely suitors for her half-cousin Shanan _and_ Lachesis's daughter Nanna can potentially marry Eldigan's son Ares (which is actually how the player gets in-game confirmation of how Lachesis really felt about Eldigan), and they're all on the side of good too.
    -   Played for Laughs with the Bandit Twins, a Recurring Element in the series: two Gonk bandit brothers who are always a little _too_ fond of each other.
-   One of the major villains in _First Encounter Assault Recon_, Harlan Wade, plays the Evilutionary Biologist and donates his own DNA (along with that of others) for use in impregnating his own daughter in hopes of producing children with powerful psychic abilities. Another villain, Aristide, calls this development 'sick'.
-   Once you learn the backstory, _Haunting Ground_ becomes _made_ of this. Basically, more or less every one of Fiona's stalkers is closely related to her, except Daniella. Her family's been cloning themselves through alchemy for centuries, each generation being composed of identical copies of the alchemist Aureolus Belli, Fiona being the first naturally born, non-Aureolus-clone Belli in hundreds of years. Her father was one of these clones, and his "brother" Riccardo stalks Fiona in an attempt to impregnate her with another clone. Again, Riccardo is, not counting his rapid degeneration due to being hastily made, completely identical to Fiona's father, even if he wasn't already her uncle. Debilitas, the first stalker in the game, is another clone, this time made by Riccardo. It's not immediately obvious though since Debilitas's creation was even more botched than Riccardo's own, though Debilitas does not yet seem to be suffering from any degeneration. This might not completely count as Debilitas's attraction to Fiona is entirely innocent and his danger to her is unintentional, but still. Lorenzo, on the other hand, swings right back into this trope. He is Fiona's "grandfather" and, again due to the cloning, is also genetically her father, the same as Riccardo. Like Riccardo, he wants Fiona's body, but for the Azoth contained inside rather than purely out of lust. Though, given some of the comments he makes towards her, especially after he's regressed in age to a young man, and the tone of voice he uses when talking to her, he's probably got some fairly squicky plans for her other than just Azoth-extraction.
-   _Higurashi: When They Cry_:
    -   The anime's official art milks this trope when it comes to Shion and Mion. Their actual relationship has only a bit of Incest Subtext in the visual novels, but a few pieces of anime artwork depict them in a twincesty manner. These artworks are specifically from the two arcs where the twins (or more specifically, Shion pretending to be Mion) are antagonists, although the events depicted (dressing up as each other) actually happen in every arc as part of their backstory and is even brought up again multiple times later on, probably without all the groping shown in the artwork though.
    -   Satoko's physically abusive uncle is heavily implied to be grooming her to be his wife once she's older. Judging from his looks, he's her biological uncle as well.
-   Warden Darling in _The House of the Dead: OVERKILL_.
-   Sariss in _Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II_ was the daughter of the Dark Side cult leader Lord Cronal, who despised her over his Straw Nihilist ideology that made him see her as a tribute to creation rather than the destruction he idolized. As a result, he had her raped by his fellow cult members and often took part in it himself, making her almost as screwed up as he was and forcing Kyle Katarn to put her down.
-   _Kara no Shoujo_: In a variation, the overall attitude isn't that the incest is morally wrong (though there is no sexual tension with the protagonist's little sister), but rather that only the mentally unstable would do such a thing.
-   _No More Heroes_: At the end of the game, Travis (a very _dark_ antihero to begin with) discovers that Jeane (the Final Boss, not his pet cat), the girl he's been searching for and was once romantically involved with, is his half-sister. Travis is as squicked out as the player is. Jeane, on the other hand, doesn't seem to mind that it happened. In the end, the two reconcile right before Travis kills Jeane.
-   In _Project Justice_, Kurow Kirishima one-sidedly lusts after his beautiful older sister Yurika. Made even more obvious in the Darkside Student Council path which is from Kurow's POV and in Kurow's ending, when he's seen caressing his brainwashed-into-subservience-to-him older sister's hair...
-   Heavily implied between the twins Alexia and Alfred Ashford, antagonists of _Resident Evil – Code: Veronica_, especially on Alfred's part.

-   In _Super Danganronpa Another 2_, this is revealed to be the case with Kanade Otonokoji. Her intense sexual desire for her twin sister Hibiki led to her killing and maiming over 60 people for getting too close to her, including _their parents and their dog_, all while manipulating and conditioning Hibiki to be totally dependent on her. She even conditioned Hibiki to go into a sort of a blank state when given the right trigger, where she'll obey Kanade's every command. A fact she used to make her murder Setsuka, the one person who acted like a Cool Big Sis to her, and to revel in Hibiki's despair before the two of them are executed. Suffice to say, the rest of the group is absolutely disgusted by this revelation.
-   Suggested to have happened between Lord Irving and his sister in _Wild ARMs 2_, and she wasn't exactly consenting to it, either.
-   Subverted in _The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt_. In the books The Emperor Emhyr var Emreis learned of a prophecy in which his The Chosen One daughter Ciri's son would rule the world, and wanted to sire that child himself. However, his conscience eventually kicked in and he let Ciri stay with Geralt instead (before marrying his daughter's Body Double). In the present day (i.e. the game) he hires Geralt to track her down again, but it's revealed that he simply wanted to abdicate his throne to her rather than anything nefarious.

    Webcomics 

-   Thomas, Nicole's dad in _Concession_ is a supervillain, he also regularly has sex with his son. Though in a strange case the comic shows this as if it's a _positive_ thing.
-   In _Fey Winds_, two members of Sigurd's Minionz, Hansel and Gretel, apply.
-   Yet another rape trope for Drip in _Jack_. The Anthropomorphic Personification of Lust is being punished for his sins in part having to pleasure his grandmother the way he did "when \[he was\] little.". Later, it's revealed that Drip had sex with his daughter Lita. He knew the relation, she didn't.

    Web Original 

-   Allison Pregler doesn't understand why this is averted in _Witchcraft,_ which features a pair of lovers reincarnated as a mother and son.
    
    "My question is, why did John and Elizabeth need Grace \[to have John's baby\]? I mean, let's _not_ pretend the mother-and-son thing would bother them. They're evil and stuff, why not cut out the middle man?"
    

Though in the sequel, Elizabeth's ghost _is_ trying to have sex with John's baby (her grandson), and Lupa is both Squicked and confused by how casually it's portrayed.

-   Apedemak in _Lioden_ attempts to convince his daughter to mate with him to produce perfect children, much to her disgust and horror. While he was angry at her relationship with Apollyon earlier and had claimed to use magic, until then it was left ambiguous if he was just an over-protective father with weird beliefs or if he was genuinely a villain.
-   The Pijavica from _None Too Holy_ is in fact the mother of Aleksandar, whom she raped multiple times when he was younger.
-   _SCP Foundation_:

    Western Animation 

-   Played for Laughs in _Family Guy_ when Meg sodomizes her own father with a loofah after being released from prison as a violent criminal.
-   Jackal from _Gargoyles_, along with his sister Hyena, is one of the most ridiculously Ax-Crazy characters in the Disney canon. However, when Hyena falls in love with Humongous Mecha Coyote, he seems to find it a little more reprehensible than just a normal big brother would, especially considering it's nothing worse than what he's done and comes off much more like a jealous Stalker with a Crush. He later got most of his body replaced with cyborg parts, and they end up in a pretty sick love triangle for most of the series.
-   _ReBoot_: While Megabyte's attempt to marry Dot may not seem like incest at first glance, it counts if you understand his origin. He was "born" from an explosion triggered by an experiment gone wrong made by Wellman Matrix (Dot's father), so technically he is Megabyte's father as well. Megabyte even calls the nullified Wellman "father" and Hexadecimal (Megabyte's sister) calls Dot her sister late in the series. So Megabyte marrying Dot falls under this trope.
-   _Young Justice_ plays with this trope for laughs—Superboy and Miss Martian go undercover as a pair of villainous siblings, though in reality they're Love Interests. When they have The Big Damn Kiss while still in disguise, actual villain Icicle Jr. is horrified.
    
    "Dude, she's your _sister!_"
    

___