_"HBO has proven that we will follow for years and years some pretty reprehensible characters as long as they're_ fascinating_."_

An interesting twist on conventional storytelling: make the bad guy, or _a_ bad guy, the main character.

Sometimes (but not always), this villainous main character will even get the Sympathetic P.O.V. On the other hand, it is not necessary for a villain to be sympathetic for them to be this trope. They simply need to be a villain whose morally reprehensible actions (however well-intentioned) are in no way glossed over _or_ justified within the context of the story. We are seeing the story from a villain's point of view. Villain Protagonists are also common in Evil vs. Evil stories, where their nemesis is a Villain Antagonist.

A Villain Protagonist (especially in a comedy) is quite likely to go down in flames at the end. Whether this counts as a Downer Ending or not generally depends on how many dogs they kick along the way, how entertaining their Humiliation Conga or Karmic Death is or both. They may also do a Heel–Face Turn and become a Hero Protagonist (or at least an Anti-Villain). This doesn't necessarily mean they _will_ lose or perform a Heel–Face Turn. In fact, their status as a main character just makes it more likely that the story will end with the villain winning than any other story would. In child-oriented media, the Villain Protagonist commonly pulls a Heel–Face Turn.

When this is done for one episode, it's a Villain Episode.

This trope very often overlaps with a Nominal Hero and/or Sociopathic Hero, and sometimes with the more extreme cases of an Unsympathetic Comedy Protagonist. Note that they do not necessarily have to be the Big Bad — a Villain Protagonist can, and often does, deal with cases where they are the victim of some other villain rather than the aggressor and try to survive like anyone else would, but in order to be considered a Sociopathic Hero or a Heroic Comedic Sociopath as well, their struggle has to protect other victims of their enemy; it doesn't matter if they care at all about them or if any good that comes out of it is purely coincidental. Actually, authors may find that it is easier to write a story where the antagonist makes the plot rather than the villain, which means that a villainous protagonist is often just as passive and reactive to other characters' actions as a more traditional heroic protagonist. In fact, it is rather rare for a Villain Protagonist to be _the_ villain of a story, presumably because audiences still want to root for the protagonist. It can still easily result in Too Bleak, Stopped Caring if handled poorly, or if the Protagonist is _too_ Villainous. If this is a comedy where empathy isn't important, however, this isn't necessarily a bad thing.

Very often leads to Misaimed Fandom. Do _not_ confuse with the Anti-Hero, who lacks traditional heroic qualities and may have some unheroic ones, and may be more morally ambiguous, but is still ultimately on the side of good (although an Anti-Hero can end up becoming a Villain Protagonist if they end up crossing one too many lines). Also not to be confused with Byronic Hero, who is simply a deeply flawed person, heroic or not. Many Byronic Heroes tend to zone in and out of Villain Protagonist territory, though. If the main character is the villain to _themselves_ in their own story, they are His Own Worst Enemy. If a heroic protagonist is revealed to be Evil All Along towards the end, this is The Killer in Me. If you get to see how a heroic protagonist gradually becomes evil over the course of the story, this is Protagonist Journey to Villain.

It is vanishingly rare for these characters to be a Complete Monster or a Hate Sink, as regardless of how much a bad dude a protagonist may be, the audience will generally still desire to have at least a degree of relatability and sympathy for them, although it has happened in very rare circumstances, often in stand-alone and experimental works. This results in them almost always being the sympathetic party of a Sympathetic Villain, Despicable Villain duo. Very rarely, they might even show up in serialized series, which can lead to Too Bleak, Stopped Caring unless executed in a very careful fashion and are usually counterbalanced by either making it a He Who Fights Monsters story or adding a sympathetic Deuteragonist who shares near-equal screen time.

Contrast Hero Antagonist, both in terms of morality and role in the story. Compare and contrast Villain Antagonist and Hero Protagonist. Do not mix up with Vanilla Protagonist, unless this particular villain is meant to emphasize how evil the other villains in the main cast are.

___

## Examples:

-   Anime & Manga
-   Comic Books
-   Films — Live-Action
-   Live-Action TV
-   Literature
-   Video Games
-   Western Animation

    open/close all folders 

    Advertising 

-   The _Biggie Bear_ PSAs focus on the titular character and appear to be rather innocuous... until he comes across a poor schmuck and shows his true colors.
-   In the UK, there were CGI advertisements for Kellogg's Fruit Winders starring anthropomorphic fruits who made Fruit Winders by killing other anthropomorphic fruits.

    Audio Plays 

-   _Big Finish Doctor Who_:
    -   The _I, Davros_ series charts the Start of Darkness of the Daleks' creator.
    -   Big Finish love giving the Master's various incarnations series where they get to be the protagonists - the War Master, Missy, the Eric Roberts Master, the Dhawan Master...

     Art 

-   Alexandre Cabanel's _The Fallen Angel_: The painting's subject is a newly banned from Heaven Lucifer. It's even in the title that he's now a Fallen Angel who harbors nothing but shameful contempt toward the God he used to adore.

    Fan Works 

-   The three main characters in the _Yu-Gi-Oh! GX_ fanfic _Agents of Light_ are dragged from their world to the Yu-Gi-Oh world by The Light of Destruction. Due to this, they work for it to try and eliminate Jaden Yuki as a threat and allow The Light of Destruction to achieve its goals for the sake of being returned to their own world by the entity.
-   _All's Fair in Love and War (And Turnabout's Fair Play)_ follows Lili Rossi plotting revenge after Adiren exposed her lies and true nature. The story gives an in-depth look at her psyche, such as how she sees everyone as selfish and deceitful as she is.
-   Naruto in the _Naruto_/_Bleach_ crossover _Amenaza_ swiftly becomes this despite his status as the Hero Protagonist in his canon universe.
-   _Be All My Sins_ ordinary person Natalie is inserted into the _Warhammer 40,000_ setting, and joins a chaos cult within the first fifteen minutes to survive.
-   One book in the _Better Bones AU_, _Brokenstar's Cataclysm_, follows the villainous Brokenstar from his birth to his rise as leader of ShadowClan, killing his father and a kit to get the power he needs to brutally retaliate against WindClan.
-   _A Better Class of Criminal_ features another Self-Insert, this one becomes a Batman villain.
-   _Better to Reign in Heaven_ is written primarily from the perspective of Stanislaus Braun, and he's every bit as unrelentingly psychopathic and sadistic as he was in _Fallout 3_, if not more so. In any case, he spends most of the story brutally torturing people and refusing to apologize or repent for any of it.
-   The _Temeraire_ fanfic _Black Wings, Black Sails_ has three perspective characters- Laurence, Temeraire, and Granby. Out of these three, Laurence by far gets the most focus and is treated by the narrative as its protagonist, in light of all of the significant changes to his worldview and lot- he's been deprived of his dragon and so completely soured to the sense of duty to king and country that so drives him in canon that he's wound up becoming a terrifying, ruthless pirate.
-   In _The Butcher Bird_, the entire crew of the Nightmare Pirates counts as this, being a pack of pirates who have a Mad Scientist captain, a ghoul as a first mate, various breeds of hardened killers and criminals as crewmen, and a group of officers who range from Psychopathic Manchild to Blood Knight in temperament. The Only Sane Man is the Bosun, and even he's a Punch-Clock Villain by the standards of the setting.
-   _Castling Cozy Glow_: Cozy Glow technically is still evil for most of the story. She still has her ambitions to seize power and still wants to get revenge on Twilight. But circumstances prevent her from doing any real villainy outside of trying to escape Twilight's custody and treating her with general hostility. Even after she starts to gain a circle of ponies she genuinely cares about, she doesn't abandon her ambitions or her hatred of Twilight. Though she does agree to become Twilight's student and becomes somewhat less hostile… after Twilight mentions the **possibility** that she could eventually make Cozy an alicorn princess like Celestia did her one day. If she earns it and Twilight trusts it's in Equestria's best interest. And that's only after **very** narrowly resisting golden opportunity to steal Twilight's magic and seize power. By the sequel, she's leaning more towards Reformed, but Not Tamed.
-   _Catarina Claes MUST DIE!_ follows Lady Henrietta Garland, the daughter of an Earl who is the reincarnation of a heavily bullied Otaku that found solace playing the Otome Game _Fortune Lover_, specifically watching Hate Sink bully Catarina Claes die horribly at the bad ends of Geordo and Keith's respective routes. When Henrietta gets her memories back and realizes she's in the world of _Fortune Lover_, she looks forward to seeing Catarina punished and killed like in the game. The problem is that Henrietta is in the world of _My Next Life as a Villainess: All Routes Lead to Doom!_, where Catarina had regained her own memories as a Japanese Otaku and is now an All-Loving Hero Loved by All. However, Henrietta refuses to accept these changes, and she will do anything to make Catarina pay for her "crimes".
-   The protagonists of the CATverse are Captain, Al, and Techie, three henchgirls/hangers-on of the Scarecrow. Since their actions are generally Played for Laughs (albeit Black Comedy) and the girls themselves are quirky and likeable characters, it's easy to forget that the trio commit robberies, regularly abduct innocent people to be experimented on by their supervillain employer, and commit the occasional murder. The Scarecrow himself, a supporting protagonist, is a full-blown supervillain who tortures civilians For Science!, isn't too picky about who he hurts, is prone to vicious Disproportionate Retribution, and lacks his henchgirls' Affably Evil traits.
-   Tyrin Lieph, a Well-Intentioned Extremist who believes that Utopia Justifies the Means, is the protagonist equivalent in the Evil Versus Evil plotline of the _Mass Effect_ fanfic _The Council Era_, his Worthy Opponent and antagonist being Halak Marr.
-   Is Cultist-chan of Warhammer40k fame adorably stupid? Maybe. Does she have any redeeming features? Arguably. Is she still a genocidal, infanticidal, buffoonish pervert who causes catastrophic destruction everywhere she goes? Without a doubt.
-   _A Devil Amongst Worms_: Makima is the main character of the story, and while she does do a lot of good things that help a lot of people, such as taking out threats like Leviathan, it's made pretty clear she's not doing this out of any sort of actual benevolence.
-   _X-Men_ fanfiction _Devil's Diary_ is told from Magneto's point of view and delves into his inner thoughts and motivations, as well as his firm belief that becoming a dictator is the only way to save his people.
-   While Klavier and Apollo sometimes regret the lengths they go to, will do what is right given a chance, and have understandable reasons for their "Strangers on a Train"-Plot Murder, they are this in _Dirty Sympathy_. They are willing to manipulate others to get the results they want or to not dirty their hands. Klavier was willing to kill Phoenix to frame Kristoph until Shadi Enigmar gave him an opportunity. Apollo is willing to manipulate witnesses, attempted to get Machi to give himself to Daryan fully knowing the latter would abuse or kill him, tampered with a crime scene to implicate someone else, and let the murderer off with a lesser crime.

-   Played with in _Dungeon Keeper Ami_: The land is torn with war, the forces of Light embattled with the vile Keepers — heralds and servants of dark gods. The Avatar of all that is good has been slain. So it has been for fifteen years when, suddenly, out of nowhere, a sorceress of unfathomable power emerges. Keeper Mercury. Taking the form of a lovely young woman, this semi-demon seems to possess the antithesis of the Light's power. Amoral and fiendishly intelligent, who knows what manner of cunning works behind that deceptive smile...
-   _The Ending of the End - Love and Tolerance Edition_ The Legion of Doom consisting of Queen Chrysalis, Lord Tirek and Cozy Glow, and later Mean!Twilight and King Sombra, gets about as much focus as the mane heroes, as well as the bulk of the Character Development. And that's before they're forced into an Enemy Mine situation with the heroes.
-   _Entropy: The Fate of the Hero System_: Momo Yaoyorozu/Arsenal, as per her Face–Heel Turn at the end of _The Everything Hero: Arsenal_, as well as the rest of the Fallen Heroes Alliance.
-   _Epiphany_: Sephiroth is a villain; he's also the main character of this story.
-   _Escape from the Moon_: Doa/Spliced Genome, though this fact is kept secret until late in the story.
-   The Company™ in the crossover fanfic _Event Horizon: Storm of Magic_ is either this, or Anti-Hero at best. Yeah, they engage in a lot of questionable business practices (e.g. selling weapons to both sides of the Stark-Lannister war), but they also oppose the omnicidal factions like Chaos and Mordor, and they've introducing a lot of social and technological progress to these worlds as well.
    -   Of course, given the Crapsack World status of at least two of the planets, it isn't very hard for The Company™ to come across as ''the good guys'' by comparison.
-   L in _Death Note_ fanfic _Fade_ becomes this in his attempts to stop Kira's rise to power.
-   _Final Nights 2: Sins of the Father_: You play as William Afton, defending himself in his house against animatronics that have come to life and now seek revenge on him.
-   As of episode 8, Twilight Sparkle becomes this in the parody series _Friendship is Witchcraft_. Twilight's characterization has always been self-centered and apathetic but no real threat since the series began, until she ruins Cadence's wedding, leaving her in a cave to die so that Twilight could marry her brother Francis.
-   Ghost in the _Armored Core_ cooperative fanfic _From the Ashes_. Relatively early on in the story, he kills _one hundred million people_. It's implied that he's been running a _huge_ Evil Plan for a long, long time, and is most definitely a Magnificent Bastard and The Chessmaster; he seems to believe that Utopia Justifies the Means, but in this case, the 'means' are genocide of the highest order. He gradually turns all the members of the rebuilt ORCA Brigade against him, and when his Morality Chain Holly came out of a coma and didn't remember him... well, it's going to get a lot worse. Given that he's an Omnicidal Maniac already... the world should probably start running. Especially given that he's got the king of all Super Prototype NEXTs and is a Person of Mass Destruction when on foot... well, this is bad. _Really_ bad.
-   In the _Doctor Who_ fanfic _Gemini,_ Captain June Harper is an Ax-Crazy Serial-Killer Killer on the run from the Time Agency that she used to work for.
-   _Harry's Madness_ has Harry Potter snap during his hearing for underage magic use and begin violently murdering his enemies, culminating in his becoming an eldritch horror and raising a legion of evil that makes Voldemort's look like amateurs to conquer England and possibly the world.
-   _The Heart Trilogy_ tells about Smaug as well as his prisoner and eventual love interest Kathryn. Though Smaug really loves Kathryn, he's about as greedy, self-absorbed and homicidal as portrayed in canon. Though he lives to take part in the War of the Ring, he sides with the Free Peoples against Sauron only because of what he can gain out of helping win Sauron and because of what the Dark Lord and Fankil have done to him and Kathryn.
-   _Hearts Aflutter_: Granted, _Worm_ practically ran on these, but while Taylor was a reluctant villain with standards, Ayano Aishi is an unapologetic murderess who kills anyone who gets between her and Taylor.
-   _Holding the World On Their Shoulders_ follows the Protagonist Journey to Villain of May Marigold who, in this continuity, becomes the Fall Maiden and agent of Salem, intent on tearing the city of Atlas from the sky and burning down the system that left her to suffer. While she is a Well-Intentioned Extremist unaware of Salem's true goals, her slow descent into villainy has her committing more and more villainous acts.
-   The _Bleach_/_My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ crossover fanfic _A Hollow in Equestria_ has Ulquiorra Cifer, a literal villain of _Bleach_, and the reluctant anti-hero protagonist of Equestria.
-   In _Hope for the Heartless_, the Horned King, the deceased Big Bad of _The Black Cauldron_, is resurrected by the Fates for unclear reasons and forced on a Redemption Quest. If he manages to fulfill it in eighteen months, he'll be permanently freed from the Black Cauldron; otherwise, he'll be sealed in it for all eternity. He initially doesn't believe he can fulfill the absurd quest (earning a human's love) and decides to settle for killing Taran, whom he believes to be responsible for his fate. However, he encounters a young human named Avalina. He imprisons her, but during the long months the prisoner and her jailer spend time together, the Horned King slowly turns from a Card-Carrying Villain into a Noble Demon. It remains to be seen if the Horned King manages to save his soul from eternal damnation.
-   _Infinity Train: Boiling Point_ follows the story of Boscha, the mean spirited bully from "Wing It Like Witches". And if you thought she was bad there, she's _even worse_ here: pulling a Deadly Prank that could endanger the entire school of Hexside, massacring and _mutilating_ the Apex children, going on a rampage for her _first week_ on the Train, and so on and so forth. And if you're not sure after this, she also happens to have one of the biggest starting numbers on the Train: **16,670**.
-   _Invader Zim: A Very Tall Problem_: Almighty Tallest Red and Purple are a pair of petty, selfish, and callous Galactic Conquerors responsible for enslaving and/or destroying hundreds of planets in their pursuit of universal domination. The very first episode opens with the duo about to blow up a planet full of alien babies simply for their own amusement before they're overthrown by La Résistance and marooned on Earth.
-   _Jimmy's Visit With Dr. Franklin_: The story is told through Jimmy Osgood's perspective as he is telling Dr. Franklin about what lead up to the point of him committing a mass shooting.
-   _The Joker Blogs_: Lampshaded by patient 4479 himself in episode 17. "You want to hear something funny? Right now, they are all rooting for me.''"
-   Justin as Kira in _Kira Is Justice_. However, his motive is that he is using the Death Note because he feels like "it is his duty".
-   _King Superman_: Each and every one of the protagonists qualify, for acts including using the children of Little Lamplight as slaves and human shields, repeatedly leaving behind friends and allies to save their own asses, and convincing Cliff Briscoe to chug radioactive sludge.
-   In the short story series _Lex Luthor Triumphant_ Lex Luthor gives Lois Lane an interview 8 months after Superman vanished without a trace. Then it goes places.
-   Abby and Owen in the _Let Me In_ fanfic _A Cold Winter's Night_. In the same vein as the movie, the pair are murderous vampires who are frozen at the age of 12. While they kill more out of necessity than malice, they're very manipulative and ultimately only loyal to each other, and have no issues killing children if they think they're a risk.
-   Dark Yagami in _Light and Dark The Adventures of Dark Yagami_. While he's once referred to as the "hero" of the story (mainly to justify his Plot Armor), unlike many fanfics with sociopathic main characters, the author seems to acknowledge that he's almost pure evil.
-   _The Masks We Wear (Teen Titans)_ John Grayson is the villain protagonist after being Forced into Evil by the Court of Owls to protect his son, Dick. He is resurrected after his death and forced to work fro them until the Grandmaster Samantha Vanaver betrays him, setting off the events that cause John to take the identity of Slade and come into conflict with the Teen Titans.
-   Zachary Turner from _Mass Foundations: Molten Lead_. He's a human supremacist/speciesist working for Cerberus, willing to sacrifice innocents to get what he wants, which was backed by a self-centered attitude, and revels in violence.
-   _Mastermind: Strategist for Hire_ follows Izuku Midoriya, who, after finding himself unable to find a job due to prejudice against his Quirklessness, becomes the titular Mastermind, using his analytical prowess to produce and sell plans to other Villains to make a living and quickly becoming one of the greatest threats to Pro Heroes in Japan as a result.
-   The _Game of Thrones_ / _Warhammer_ fanfic _The Mountain and the Wolf_ is about the Norscan Chaos warrior Wulfrik and his travels throughout the continent of Westeros. While he's certainly no good guy, the people he frequently kills tend to be outright Asshole Victims and Hate Sinks from the series (i.e. Ramsay Bolton and Gregor Clegane).
-   Maylu Sakurai from _Maylu's Revenge_. She wanted to get revenge against Roll for her actions as Empress in "Evil Empress Roll", the two-parter episode this fanfic takes place after. And she's willing to get it, even siding with World Three.

-   _Necrophobia_. With a name like that and the fact that it is being led by a scalpel happy Mad Scientist named Dieter Mengele, it is quite obvious that this guild is evil.
-   The _Zootopia_ fanfic _A New Dawn_ is primarily told from Dawn Bellwether's point of view, with the first few chapters exclusively featuring her and her 'associates' Doug and Jesse. Later on, Judy, Nick, and Gideon are brought into the story and the point of view is spread out a little bit, but Dawn's perspective is very prominent throughout. The narration seems to stand with Dawn's belief that she did nothing wrong because all predators are monsters. Exactly _why_ she believes this is not revealed until late into the story.
-   _Pages Of Harmony_ has Twilight Sparkle, who kidnaps, tortures, and Mind Rapes her friends to extract their Elements. She is a Well-Intentioned Extremist who sincerely believes her plan to destroy chaos and let Harmony rule are good, even if it means killing her friends, coldly murdering ponies who get in her way before her plans are set, and utterly destroying every disharmonious being in all of reality.
-   _PMD: Another Perspective_: The main character is a member of Team Rocket who was sent into the world of Pokemon by the organization to complete some sort of mission.
-   _PMD: The Rogue Team_: The story follows a morally questionable treecko who convinces an amnesiac, former human to join his Rogue team, in a quest to become the most powerful and well-known gang of outlaws.
-   Several sidestories of _Pokémon Reset Bloodlines_ have bad guys as the protagonists. These include the Dakim, Sabrina and Twenty Gyarados Bill Gaidens, and the Cipher and Guzma Interludes.
-   The _Pony POV Series_, being a POV series, does this on occasion. But the example that stands out is Princess Luna during her second POV. She starts out as a hero, but eventually performs a Face–Heel Turn due to her overpossessiveness of Pip. She gets into an argument with Celestia, resulting in her killing and bringing Pip back to life as an immortal undead so she can have him forever. When Celestia tries to convince her against making him immortal, she tries to murder her, killing a number of innocent ponies in the process. This leads to Celestia being a Hero Antagonist and fighting back to stop her now insane sister, ultimately killing her. It was All Just a Dream, but still!
    -   A milder example, but one that shouldn't be overlooked regardless, is any of the chapters set in the Epilogue timeline. Being a Villain World where Discord won, it's to be expected that about 99% of the story is told from the POV of either Discord himself or the discorded Mane Six, who now serve as his Co-Dragons. At least until Twilight Tragedy performs a Heel–Face Turn, followed shortly there after by Liarjack. They then redeem Rarigreed and, much later, Traitor Dash and Angry Pie.
    -   Queen Chrysalis' Origins Episode is entirely from her point of view, showing what a sociopath she was even from birth.
-   _Sonic the Hedgehog_ fanfic _Prison Island Break_ has all the main cast as violent convicted criminals. They don't even have a particuarly heroic goal; they just want to escape. But because the story is centered on them, they get the Sympathetic P.O.V. and you completely forget they're a collection of terrorists, serial killers and rapists (even though the writer never lets you forget).
-   Jade's Face–Heel Turn in _Queen of All Oni_ is what kicks off the entire plot in the first place, and she gets more much more focus than the heroes trying to stop her (though the author's started to rectify that in the latest chapters).
-   In _Danny Phantom_ fanfic _Resurrected Memories_: Ember for the first part of the story as she eventually undergoes a Heel–Face Turn.
-   The _Kimagure Orange Road_ fanfic _Revenge Road_ is told from the perspective of Hikaru, who murders Madoka and Kyôsuke out of jealousy.
-   Ted/Darth Vulcan from _The Rise of Darth Vulcan_. A human who is brought to Equestria by the Alicorn Amulet (which he purchased at a pawn shop), his disdain for the Sugar Bowl environment, and a series of altercations with the Mane 6 drive him into becoming the next major villain of Equestria, with the power of the Amulet and the Diamond Dogs at his command. And since the story is told mainly from his perspective, it fits.
-   _RWBY: Dark_'s first four chapters are about its version of team RWBY. Thing is the fic is a Mirror Universe fic, so they're subject to Adaptational Villainy with Ruby's chapter being about her murder of her parents, and mutilation and enslavement of Yang; Weiss's is about her final descent into becoming a Corrupt Corporate Executive; Blake's being about her usurping control of the White Fang from Adam for her genocidal ends; and Yang's is about her descent into becoming a feral slave.
-   In _Sailor Moon Abridged_, Raye/Sailor Mars is very much this, being a Satan-worshipper (Human Sacrifice included) who was more than happy to take Molly up on her offer of "Kill me first!" when she defended Nephlyte. All of it is played for laughs.
-   Played with in _Sith Academy_, a _Star Wars_ parody series with Darth Maul as the protagonist. While Maul himself is a (not-so-) Heroic Comedic Sociopath who take great pleasure in violently venting his anger and frustration on others, and his mentor Palpatine is a Sadistic Sissy Villain and Magnificent Bastard who treats Maul more like a servant than a student, the series makes it clear that the Jedi aren't any better despite their supposed role as the champions of the Light Side.
-   _Resident Evil_ and _DC Comics_ fanfic _The Supermen_ does show the point of view of other characters, but Wesker gets the most focus and most of the story is from his point of view, so he's quite clearly the protagonist so far. He's just as evil as he is in the games. As of Chapter 6, he has killed 8 innocent people (Red Shirts) and is manipulating the Justice League as part of his plan to take over the world...and he's just getting started. The author has stated that they see Wesker as irredeemable.
-   For _Temporal Anomaly_, the main protagonist is Sougo Tokiwa/Oma Zi-O, an ruthless and ambitious Evil Overlord intent on taking over the world he finds himself on after being erased from the timeline of his old world.
-   The _Miraculous Ladybug_ fan fiction _Two Letters_ deconstructs the "Saltinette" Fandom-Specific Plot (Marinette getting fed up with the rest of the cast bullying her or being incompetent by becoming an Alpha Bitch) by exaggerating said reaction and turning her into one of these. The second of the titular two letters is a Note to Self in which she gloats to her post-quitting-being-a-Guardian-Laser Guided Amnesiac self how she orchestrated the downfall of all the other heroic Miraculous holders in Paris and allowed her biggest bully to become a Sketchy Successor who is currently causing mayhem with a Monster Protection Racket, all to get even with a city full of (alleged) Ungrateful Bastards. As for the amnesiac Marinette, she is perfectly happy with this and even visibly gleeful about Parisans' newfound misery.
-   The first chapter of _Watch Me Burn_ is written from Adrien's perspective, all the better to highlight how he finds it funny to overstep Marinette's boundaries and make her uncomfortable, then turn around and harass her as Ladybug until she loses her temper with him. The narration explicitly states that he loves the feeling of having power over her, and little things like Akumas are only noteworthy to him for providing more opportunities to emotionally abuse his girlfriend. The second chapter swaps to Ladybug's POV in order to show that Adrien is an Unreliable Narrator who doesn't even register that some of his actions (which he considers "fun ways to get a rise out of Ladybug") cross the Moral Event Horizon.
-   _Webwork_, a part of Project Dark Jade like _Queen of All Oni_ above, likewise has Jade's Face–Heel Turn instigating the plot, with her acting as The Heavy and primary antagonist (though in this case, as Dragon-in-Chief, rather than Big Bad).
-   Charles Cooper from the _Five Nights at Freddy's_ fanfiction _You Seem Acquainted With Those Doors_ is a murderous psychopath who is responsible for the deadly conditions of Freddy Fazbear's.

    Films — Animation 

-   Achmed of _Achmed Saves America_ was considered as one at some point until he got a change of heart from the celebration of Americaville’s 100th birthday
-   _All Dogs Go to Heaven_: While he doesn't do anything particularly evil and is very civil (so much so that he almost feels like a Designated Villain Protagonist) according to Charlie Barkin's life book in heaven, which involves every moment of his life from his birth to his untimely death, he has been involved with blackmailing, racketeering, double-crossing and loan-sharking at least by association with his much more dreadful partner-in-crime, mafia don Carface. While it appears that his crusade will be about life and revenge it actually becomes one about character development and redemption.
-   The titular gang of _The Bad Guys (2022)_ are a Caper Crew of predatory animals. After being caught trying to pull the biggest heist of their careers, they try to feign reformation so they can return to their criminal lifestyle. They eventually reform for real to clear their names after being framed for a crime they didn't commit.
-   The Beast in _Beauty and the Beast_. He started off as a young selfish prince who ruled his kingdom with an iron fist. One night, he refused to offer shelter to an old beggar woman, who turns out to be a forceful enchantress in disguise. The enchantress places a spell on the prince's castle, turning all of servants into household objects and the prince into the Beast, all to punish him for his selfishness, an act that left him guilt-ridden. Despite his hot temper and vicious behavior, he is not without redeemable qualities as the film revolves around him learning to reflect on his past behavior and exteriors to become a better person, with the assistance from Belle (who breaks the spell by confessing her love for him after he rescues her and tends to her genuine interests). Even before that, the Beast goes to face against a more ungenerous villain in the form of Gaston, who only serves nothing more than a dark reflection of the Beast if he hadn't abandon his self-centeredness.
-   _Boogie_, the Anti-Hero titular protagonist. Who doesn't give a damn about collateral damage, tricks a child into ringing the doorbell of a mafia den (causing the child to be shredded by machine gun rounds, which Boogie hardly bats an eye towards), beats up senior citizens, shoots policemen who got in his way, and blows away his _nanny_ for remarking he's a naughty kid.
-   The various adaptations of _A Christmas Carol_ have Ebenezer Scrooge as a rapacious and insensitive businessman, who thinks nothing of financially taking advantage of the poor and destitute, one of the more prominent being _A Christmas Carol (2009)_.
-   _Despicable Me_: Its protagonist is Gru. He's a villain, but he is not the best in the world. However, it's a point of pride for him that he's pretty close. The sequels abandon this idea for more than just window dressing after his Heel–Face Turn at the end of the first film.
-   Kuzco from _The Emperor's New Groove_. He's very insensitive and cocky, and everyone despises him, but his Evil Chancellor Yzma is way more wicked than him, and the film revolves around him going on an odyssey that helps him become a better person.
-   Since it is called _Lucky Luke: Ballad of the Daltons_, the four desperados are in the spotlight as much as Lucky Luke if not more so and the film follows their attempts to become rich by murdering all the members of the jury that sent their uncle to the hangman's noose. Luke simply gets dragged along and Black Comedy ensues.
-   _Megamind_ is played as the stereotypical Big Ham villain; however, he finds his life to be meaningless after he "defeats" Metroman. Afterwards he plays hero against a much worse villain of Tighten.
-   Played With in _Wreck-It Ralph_, as the title character only _plays_ the villain, but is clearly otherwise _not_ a villain in reality. His quest is to prove to the so-called "Nicelanders" that he's capable of doing good, much to their disbelief (particularly from Mayor Gene).

    Music 

See also the music page for Villain Song.

-   Barnacle Bill the Sailor from the Bawdy Song of the same name is occasionally depicted as this, especially in the more vulgar versions of the song. If the fair young maiden asks what will happen if her parents see him, he will answer that he will "kill your pa and fuck your ma". When asked about what will happen if he goes to jail, Barnacle Bill will brag that he will escape. At the very least, the cleaner versions of the song make it clear that Barnacle Bill is not a pleasant fellow.
-   The Beatles had a few examples: the title characters in John's "The Continuing Story of Bungalow Bill", Paul's "Maxwell's Silver Hammer" and George's "Taxman" (the last one is also the viewpoint character), the persona in John's "Run for Your Life", and John's persona in the second half of "Happiness is a Warm Gun".
-   Black Sabbath's "Iron Man" is about a hero who travels to the future and witnesses The End of the World as We Know It, and when he travels back to the present, he is transformed into the title's villain who causes the future destruction in the first place.
-   Blue Öyster Cult gives us the song ME262, which positively goes into rhapsodies about the World War II German jet fighter, and the joys of shooting down bombers for the Nazi regime.
    
    "ME262 Prince of Turbojets, Junkers Jumo 004, blasts from clustered R4M quartets in my snout, and see these English planes go burn..."
    
    -   The cover of the album on which the single appears, "Secret Treaties", even features the band standing around the plane with the group's logo replacing the German markings on it.
    -   Blue Öyster Cult does this a lot, really. Some other examples include "Career of Evil", "Then Came the Last Days of May", "Harvester of Eyes", and "Dr. Music".
    -   Their Rock Opera _Imaginos_ and Albert Bouchard's sequel _Imaginos II: Bombs Over Germany_ follow the story of the flamboyantly amoral shapeshifter Desdinova.
-   The Boomtown Rats' "I Don't Like Mondays" was written about Brenda Spencer, who killed two adults and injured nine children in a school shooting in San Diego in 1979.
-   Cher Lloyd's song _Want U Back_ is about a petty, jealous woman who dumped her ex because he wasn't cool enough for her and is furious to see he's doing just fine without her. She wants him back not because she likes him but because he's not allowed to be happy without her.
-   David Bowie's _Station to Station_ is narrated by the Thin White Duke, a heartless fascist who the opening line of the album describes as "throwing darts in lovers' eyes." Bowie himself described the Duke as "a nasty character indeed," and the threat of becoming Lost in Character motivated his decision to eschew stage personas once the album's promotional cycle wrapped up.
-   Nick Cave has a few songs about villain protagonists, most notably the entire album _Murder Ballads_.
-   Played for Laughs with Jonathan Coulton, whose protagonists have variously included a sapient zombie ("Re: Your Brains"), a wannabe Mad Scientist ("The Future Soon"), an _actual_ Mad Scientist ("Skullcrusher Mountain") and so on. He also wrote GLaDOS' songs for the _Portal_ games.
-   The Rake from The Decemberists' "The Rake's Song" sings, without so much as a hint of regret, about how he killed his three children in order to escape from the responsibilities of parenthood. It's quite good.
-   "Strong" by Clamavi de Profundis tells the story of a Viking tribe who goes to invade a monastery, fully intending to kill everyone there, and loot all their gold.
-   The Eagles' 1973 album _Desperado_ tells the story of real-life wild west outlaws Bill Doolin and Bill Dalton.
-   Eminem's early music told the stories of Slim Shady, an Ax-Crazy, sexist, homophobic, drugged-up, Chaotic Stupid sociopath who leaves a trail of violence and wanton destruction wherever he goes.
-   The band, _Fear Factory's_, earlier albums were based on a continues storyline about a futuristic war between man and machine; machines being the villains. Many of their songs at the time had the machine leader giving it's commentary on wanting to wipe out the human race.
-   Peter Gabriel's songs "Intruder" and "Family Snapshot" are told from the perspectives of a burglar and Lee Harvey Oswald/Arthur Bremmer, respectively.
-   Great Big Sea's "Harbour Lecou" is narrated by a sailor seeking marital infidelity in a port away from his home & family.
-   The heavy metal band GWAR can be classified as this.
-   Iron Maiden has a few, such as "Run to the Hills" (the first half is sung by a Badass Native, then a Perspective Flip goes to a cavalryman gloating about destroying their tribes) and "El Dorado" (sung by a Corrupt Corporate Executive who cons people without any shame).
-   Hip-Hop artists like Jay-Z or 50 Cent were allegedly criminals before having music careers, and many of their songs deal with this topic from their perspective.
-   Elton John's "Ticking" has an initially unassuming protagonist going on to kill 14 people in a mass shooting before being gunned down by police.
-   The Kinks "Sunny Afternoon" is told from the prescriptive of a Rich Bastard who complains about "the tax man \[taking\] all \[he's\] got" (yet he still lives in a "stately home"), being unable to use his yacht and is an Alcoholic that is "cruel" to his girlfriend.
-   _All_ of Macabre's are told from the perspective of the most wicked killers in human history.
-   Metallica's "Jump in the Fire" is sung by the Devil.
-   Everything that happens in a Monster Magnet song happens with a fistful of pills. Protagonists run the gamut from garden-variety drug abusers/dealers to comic-book-style supervillains and demonic agents. There are a lot of bombs getting planted, and things might get a little rape-y. Notable are the infanticidal couple of "See You in Hell", the drug-addled character in "Tractor", and various personifications of evil in "Kiss of the Scorpion", "Atomic Clock", and "Bummer".
    
    _I drove out to the Meadowlands to throw our baby away._ —"See You in Hell"
    
    _If you wanna spank your demons and make them pay, well baby, I'm your man of the hour_ —"Bummer"
    
    _Got a knife in my back, got a hole in my arm, I'm driving a tractor on a drug farm_ —"Tractor"
    
-   The main character from Nine Inch Nails' _The Downward Spiral_ starts off as someone who indulges heavily in sex and drugs to try to feel something, but crosses the Moral Event Horizon when he eventually rapes someone.
    -   Several songs on _Year Zero_ are also from the villains' perspectives. "God Given" and "Capital G" are from the viewpoints of the corrupt church and state respectively, "The Great Destroyer" is most likely the viewpoint of a character known as "The Angry Sniper," and the last half of "The Warning" has the disembodied hand in the sky known as The Presence threaten to destroy mankind if they don't change their ways.
    -   "Big Man With A Gun" is sung from the point of view of a Serial Rapist, and in one of the lines he talks about wanting to put a hole in someone's head "Just for the fuck of it.
-   The Nirvana song "Polly" is sung from the point of view of a rapist who holds his victim captive and tortures her with razors and a blowtorch. It was based on a true story.
-   Pink, from Pink Floyd's _The Wall_. Though the album begins with a Start of Darkness and ends with a redemption of sorts.
-   _The Police_: in "Every Step You Take" the protagonist is very clearly meant to be a Stalker with a Crush, and Sting himself said the lyrics are meant to be very sinister. Despite all this, some people still say they find the song romantic.
-   The Primus song "My Name Is Mud" is sung from the perspective of a man who murdered his friend and is burying the body.
-   "Bohemian Rhapsody" by Queen is sung by a condemned murderer who is only sorry he didn't get away with it. Maybe. At the very least, we know Beelzebub has a devil put aside for him. For him. For _hiiiiiiiiiiiim_.
-   Then there's "Sympathy for the Devil" by The Rolling Stones, which as the title makes clear is narrated by Satan himself.
-   Slayer's "Angel of Death," about Josef Mengele.
-   The song "Sex Dwarf" by _Soft Cell_ is from the point of view of some kind of pimp or something, and has an oft-repeated line about "Luring disco dollies to a life of vice."
-   Al Stewart's "Running Man" is about a Stern Chase, told from the sympathetic perspective of the fugitive. He's implied to be an old Nazi.
-   The Talking Heads song "Psycho Killer" is sung from the point of view of the Son of Sam killer.
-   Ziltoid from the Ziltoid the Omniscient album by Devin Townsend is definitely this. He destroys earth, because he didn't like the coffee they presented him, follows the escaping humans to another planet, unsuccessfully attempts to destroy that one, then he asks the Planet Smasher to destroy another planet, which is populated by sentient being, just to lift his mood.
-   The narrator of Taylor Swift's "Anti-Hero" is responsible for all the conflict and misery around her, including her own future possible murder.
-   U2's "Until the End of the World" is sung from the perspective of Judas Iscariot, the apostle who betrayed Jesus Christ.
-   "Caught" by _Velvet Acid Christ_ is song from the point of view of a Serial Killer who mainly preys on children, especially little girls, who apparently leaves his victims "Eviscerated, with their tongues cut out", and brags about how evil and scary he is and how no one will catch him.
-   Many, many Vocaloid songs. Notable examples include Mothy-P's Story of Evil and the numerous "yandere" songs like "Luka's Love Disease," "Miku's Rotten Girl," and "Grotesque Romance."
-   The viewpoint character of Voltaire's song "When You're Evil" is a Card-Carrying Villain. Also "Almost Human", and "The Chosen" and "Brains"... he kinda likes that one.
-   The Irish traditional "Whiskey In The Jar" famously performed by The Pogues and The Dubliners follows the crimes and arrest of a highway-robbing drunkard.
-   "Behind Blue Eyes" by The Who is this with an Anti-Villain.
-   Within Temptation uses these most significantly in their "Unforgiving" album (and supplemental arc videos), which revolves around a vigilante serial killer cult recruited from the souls of the damned.
-   Clockwork Quartet's 'The Watchmaker's Apprentice' is told from the perspective of a man who frames his boss for murder.
-   The narrator of the Wreckers song "Crazy People". There's a _reason_ only crazy people fall in love with you, lady.
-   The narrator of Warren Zevon's "Mr. Bad Example". He starts out stealing from a church fund for widows and orphans as a young boy, and only gets worse from there. The Ax-Crazy subject from "Excitable Boy" would be another example.
-   The Ian Dury and the Blockheads song "Billericay Dickie" is about a man boasting about all the women he's raped.

    Mythology & Religion 

-   An interesting Biblical example is the prophet Jonah (although he can also be seen as a very unpleasant sort of Anti-Hero). God has a plan to push the entire city of Nineveh into a Heel–Face Turn and He wants Jonah's help, but Jonah refuses. Eventually God convinces him to play along and the city does indeed get saved - but Jonah is explicitly noted to be "angry enough to die" about it. He _wanted_ the city to remain evil. In particular, he appears to have been hoping that they would remain evil and dangerous enough for God to have no choice but to destroy them, which kinda implies the prophet was a closeted Blood Knight. While not the only Biblical protagonist to _start off_ by opposing God, he is the only one who doesn't seem to learn the error of his ways. The narrative ends with God giving him a What the Hell, Hero? speech before apparently leaving him alone.
-   Ishtar in Mesopotamian Mythology, particularly in _Inanna's Descent to the Netherworld_ where her goal is basically to take over three worlds.
-   Iktomi in numerous Lakota fables. Despite being a member of the Wacan Sica, he is also the paradigm of human advancement, meaning that he will appear in these stories to teach the characters and readers valuable lessons (often indirectly).
-   The husbands in The Swan Maiden myths. They essentially force the swan maidens to be their wives by hiding their animal skins, which effectively traps them.

    Pinball 

-   In Capcom's unreleased _Kingpin,_ the player is an up-and-coming mobster who wants to get to the top of the organization by killing everyone in his way.

    Podcasts 

-   John Wilkes Booth is this in the _1865_ prequel miniseries.

    Professional Wrestling 

-   "Stone Cold" Steve Austin. While there's no question that he was an Anti-Hero from 1998 onward, it could be argued that he was basically this in 1997. Although the crowd was firmly on his side against the Hart Foundation, he acted like the same vicious heel he had always been - beating up on babyfaces, even the ones who helped him. When Mankind helped him in a handicap match, for example, he hugged him and then gave him a Stunner and told him he'd never work with a freak like him. When he was forced to relinquish the Intercontinental and Tag Team Titles thanks to his neck injury, he made a hitlist of the three main authority figures (lead announcer Jim Ross, Commissioner Sgt. Slaughter, and Vince McMahon) and made sure to beat them all up while mocking them for it the whole time. Mind you, they were all babyfaces and were looking out for his safety. Just 18 months earlier, that same type of storyline was used to get Vader over as a monster heel. Real Life Writes the Plot intervened to create a brilliant Heel–Face Turn against Bret Hart (who did a Face–Heel Turn in the same match), and Austin became the number one most popular guy in the golden era of wrestling.
-   Triple H became this in 2002 after the aforementioned Steve Austin and The Rock were slowly being phased out of the company, <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and due to being actually married into the McMahon family by this point, he took the opportunity to book himself as the de facto face of the company. He became the inaugural World Heavyweight Champion and began his infamous "Reign of Terror" where for the next few years, he was the main focus. The A-show, Monday Night Raw and often had segments that opened and closed the show. Even if he would occasionally lose the title, he _always_ got it back somehow, having a grand total of **609** days, across _five_ different reigns. Even after finally being dethroned by his protégé Batista in 2005, Trips always found himself somewhere near the main event scene up until his retirement from in-ring action in 2022.
-   Roman Reigns became this as of his return and subsequent Face–Heel Turn in the second half of 2020. After roughly five years of X-Pac Heat due to creative forcing him into the same roles that Hulk Hogan and John Cena previously filled, Reigns became a full on villain after allying himself with Paul Heyman and winning the Universal Championship and would go on to defeat every heroic face that challenged him and become the longest reigning champion of the modern era since Hulk Hogan's first run as world champion in 1984. Reigns is notably the first wrestler pushed as the company's ace to be a Heel.

    Radio 

-   Thomas in _Old Harry's Game_ is the focus of most of the story lines he's in. He's also such a godawful person that _Satan_ (himself an example of this trope) is shocked by how evil he is at times.
-   Ghost of _True Capitalist Radio_ can be this at his worst. Usually, he is an Unsympathetic Comedy Protagonist with many Pet the Dog moments, but he occasionally lets his mean-spiritedness and bullying nature get the better of him.

    Roleplay 

-   _Destroy the Godmodder_: In Be the Godmodders, you played as godmodders, trashing the last safe haven left.
-   The main character of _Digimon World: Infamy_ is solely motivated by Revenge and killing the "heroes", not caring in the least bit about wiping out any number of random Digimon if it helps him achieve his goals.
-   _Dorf Quest_'s Beardbeard embodies this trope - cutting down forests, killing elves, attacking small children, and promoting Satan himself to godhood.
-   Eric from _Mall Fight_. Originally he was Heroic Neutral, a Type IV Anti Hero at worst, but in the latest canon he rules over a Wretched Hive, keeping dozens of slave girls and a former classmate he's obsessed with as his queen against her will. He still tries to do good and wants to be a hero, he just doesn't care about what anyone else wants.

    Tabletop Games 

-   Though not specific to any system in particular, it's very much the point to many campaigns. The "evil campaign" is often used to change things up where the PCs are the group of troublesome goblins, the terrorizing bandits or eclectic grouping of monsters. The goals tend to vary from pure destruction for the sake of destruction, sticking it to a certain group, actual goals of city/country/world domination or even a subversion of the genre.
-   _Atmosfear_'s player characters include a shyster mummy, a serial-killer vampire, a bloodthirsty werewolf, an angry poltergeist, a vodou-spinning zombie, a vain gorgon, a pyromaniac witch or skeletal bandits trying to escape an even BIGGER asshole in the form of the Gatekeeper.
-   _Bloody Inn_ has the players act as members of a villainous family of innkeepers who compete to see who can murder and rob more guests without being caught by the authorities.
-   The _Delta Green_ adventure "Iconoclasts" has perhaps one of the more outstanding examples of this in tabletop games, with the first chapter of the multi-part adventure making the player characters for the scenario members of ISIS who are tasked with destroying "blasphemous" artifacts. This being _Delta Green_, the adventure is typically meant to end with a total party kill after the extremists damage the wrong jar and unleash a Mask of Nyarlathotep that takes the form of a flensing storm of shards of obsidian, with the other chapters focused on Delta Green picking up the wreckage.
-   While _Empire of Satanis_ tries to explain it with a "master morality", the bottom line is that you are a demon who performs evil acts and torments humans so you can become a god and be even more evil.
-   The basic assumption when you play an Abyssal in _Exalted_. One chapter even has discussion about how to make the game more than one slaughterfest after another; they are _that_ bad.
    -   This is where you're assumed to start as a Green Sun Prince in 2e. Subverted, however, if you quickly catch on that the Yozis are (A) certifiably insane and (B) can't actually rope you in. You can become a Punch-Clock Villain looking for an escape, a Well-Intentioned Extremist Anti-Hero using a loose interpretation of your orders to push an ultimately productive agenda, or just a plain ol' Noble Demon who just wants to be left alone, before you slip the leash entirely. It's dropped in 3e and _Essence_, which see the Yozis letting you do your own thing without mandating any particular behavior, figuring you'll serve the Yozis' ends just by being yourself and disrupting Creation's established power structures as you go (and given you're among the most powerful of the Exalted, it's hard to say they're wrong...).
-   _Legendary Encounters: Predator_ has a variant where the players play as Predators who are hunting humans for trophies.
-   After two expansions to their _Middle Earth CCG_, Iron Crown Entertainment tried shaking things up by releasing a whole second basic set called "The Lidless Eye", casting the players as one of the nine Nazgul, working in the shadows to locate the Ringbearer and/or rally the monstrous races into an army. An interesting idea, but unfortunately, one which did nothing to stem fan complaints of "filler lore", and only ruffled _more_ feathers by being largely incompatible with cards from the previous set.
-   _Monopoly_: The players are _supposed_ to be this, as the goal of the game is not to simply make the most money, but to buy out everyone else or put them out of business. The game was meant to have a Capitalism Is Bad message. Unfortunately, this goes right over the heads of most modern day players.
-   The SavageWorlds setting _Necessary Evil_ has the players make supervillain characters to combat an alien invasion.
-   The _Pathfinder_ RPG has an Adventure Path called Hell's Vengeance where the whole point is to play evil characters serving Cheliax.
    -   Second edition has the Blood Lords adventure path, where the players take the role of troubleshooters working under the titular Blood Lords, ministers of the undead-ruled nation of Geb. The player companion does say that the players don't _need_ to be evil — Neutral-aligned or even _Lawful Good_ characters can work if they're played the right way — but Geb as a whole is a Lawful Evil nation, and the AP is primarily designed for characters who are True Neutral at best.
-   By definition, Player Characters in _Shadowrun_ are all criminals, and more often than not criminals performing not only illegal but also immoral acts on the behest of one MegaCorp or Syndicate or another. Most game masters will pit the characters against opponents who are at least a little worse than they are.
-   _Trogdor!! The Board Game_ casts the players as the Keepers of Trogdor, who help the ferocious dragon Trogdor the Burninator and guide his actions as he rampages across the kingdom of Peasantry, burninating the countryside, the peasants, and the thatched-roof cottages.
-   _Violence™: The Roleplaying Game of Egregious and Repulsive Bloodshed_ casts the players as sociopathic murderers and criminal scum who rob, rape, and kill innocents. Justified as the game is a dark satire of conventional hack-n-slash RPGs.
-   _Warhammer 40,000_: Due to the Evil Versus Evil setting, every faction could be seen as a villain protagonist when they're being played. From war-crazed Ork swarms to Chaos demons to fascist, genocidal humans, no one group could be said to be "the good guys." The Craftworld Eldar, Tau Empire, and some sub-factions of the Imperium could probably get away with being called dark Anti Heroes, but everyone else (including the bulk of the Imperium) is firmly in Omnicidal Maniac territory to anyone outside of their faction... and even a lot of people within it.
    -   That said, the Imperium's Villain Protagonist status is more evident in earlier editions of the game. As the game grew more popular and mainstream, since the Imperium was the de facto protagonist faction due to being the "Human Over-Faction", it got progressively Lighter and Softer to make it palatable.
-   _Wicked Ones_ is heavily inspired by the video games _Dungeon Keeper_ and _War for the Overworld_, with the players all taking on the roles of the titular Wicked Ones: fantasy monsters trying to develop and maintain a dungeon staffed with evil minions and filled with plunder taken from those hapless do-gooders as they work towards their nefarious goals.
-   Many gamelines of the _World of Darkness_ have the players as traditional "monsters", vampires, werewolves, mummies, etc. But there are a few where the player character actually has to be evil, _Beast: The Primordial_ is one of those exceptions. Beasts have to inspire fear, often destructively, else their Soul runs rampant and does it anyway, with a chance of creating Heroes obsessed with slaying them. But even Beasts can feed their hunger without being destructive by watching other supernaturals feed.

    Theater 

-   Roxie Hart, the protagonist of _Chicago_, is an unrepentant murderer who cheats her husband, shoots the man she cheated with after finding out he lied about being able to get her into show business, refuses to admit she did anything wrong, lies in order to gain press sympathy...and eventually gets off scot-free.
-   _Doctor Faustus_ sells his soul to the devil for diabolical powers that he uses for selfish and often petty goals.
-   _Don Giovanni_ is a lecherous noble who has had sex with over two thousand women before callously abandoning them. The opera begins with him trying to rape a woman, then killing her father when he defends her honor.
-   While most of the cast of _Great Britain_ are morally ambiguous at best, the main character, Paige Britain, is most definitely a villain, being a worker at a tabloid paper, who rapidly becomes more corrupt and goes to greater ends to try and further her career. She eventually crosses the Moral Event Horizon by allowing a Page Seven model to starve to death so she can have the exclusive rights to her death story.
-   Harry Bogen from _I Can Get It For You Wholesale_ spends the entire musical lying, cheating, betraying and embezzling his way to success.
-   _The Jew of Malta_ goes on a Roaring Rampage of Revenge that takes in a lot of innocent bystanders, including an entire convent full of nuns.
-   The title character of _Macbeth_ is somewhat of an Anti-Villain despite his Moral Event Horizon against the family of the play's Hero Antagonist; though his antivillainy isn't really of the "good intentions" variety so much as the "just plain pitiable" variety.
-   Medea from Greek Myth, at least as presented by Euripides in the play _Medea_. A straight reading of the facts of the myth makes Medea come across as an irredeemably evil multiple murderess (her victims included her younger brother and her sons), yet Euripides presents her as sympathetic, or at least understandable.
-   Shylock from _The Merchant of Venice_, although Bassanio and Portia have about as much or more lines. Some productions turn Shylock into an Anti-Villain, as the play was Fair for Its Day and gives him legitimate reasons for being so ruthless.
-   _No Exit_: All three main characters have well earned being condemned to Hell together. Ines is a self-proclaimed sadist who murdered her own cousin to get with his wife, Garcin is a narcissistic Dirty Coward who emotionally abused and cheated on his wife, and Estelle is an unhinged psychopath who drowned _her own baby_ and drove her lover to suicide in order to cover up an affair.
-   Although _Othello_ is ostensibly a play about Othello, Iago is really the protagonist and most definitely the villain.
-   Richard of Gloucester (a.k.a. King Richard III) from William Shakespeare's _Richard III_ is one of the earliest Villain Protagonists.
-   Arnolphe, from _The School for Wives_ (_L'école des femmes_), is a clear example, although he is usually seen as sympathetic because all his plans are easily thwarted and his villainy stems mostly from his desire to have a loving wife who will not be unfaithful to him.
-   _Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street_: The title character kills everyone who comes into his barbershop and has them baked into meat pies to get rid of the bodies. Mrs. Lovett fits the trope as well.
-   _Tamburlaine_ features as its protagonist a man who mutilates, kills, subjugates, and rapes at any opportunity he gets. He locks up the Ottoman Emperor in a cage and feeds him his wife; he kills one of his own sons for being unwilling to fight; he is driven around in a chariot drawn by deposed kings and emperors. In the end, he burns a Qur'an and dies suddenly.
-   In _Used Cars_, the salesman protagonists lie, cheat, and steal from essentially everyone they meet.
-   _Volpone_ from Ben Jonson's play of the same name is a greedy and lecherous con man; the play's main plot is about him faking being on the edge of death to trick people into giving him gifts in the hopes that he'd name them as his heir.

    Theme Parks 

-   _Doctor Doom's Fearfall_ at Universal's Islands of Adventure focuses on none other than the Fantastic Four's arch-nemesis, Doctor Doom, and his attempts to recruit guests into fueling his "Fusion Dynamo" device that he will use to destroy the quartet.

    Visual Novels 

-   A number of "dark" visual novels of the Hentai variety feature a protagonist who, from the beginning, intends nothing better than to rape and/or enslave as many targets as possible.
-   _Atlach=Nacha_, where the protagonist Hatsune is a humanitarian Giant Spider who lusts after tender young schoolgirls to replenish her energy and fight Hero Antagonist Shirogane, though she can be played as a Nominal Hero, and Shirogane himself is the true Big Bad who made her that way.
-   _Beyond Eden_'s protagonist Alex Wake is essentially a younger, more emotionally broken Edmund Dantes who doesn't shy away from using rape and blackmail in revenge against those he sees as responsible for his sister's death. The entire VN revolves around uncovering what turned a moral and good child into such a man, and whether the targets of his (misguided) revenge could still get through to him and convince him of the possibility of atonement.
-   In _Cooking Companions_, it's greatly implied that the protagonist is Baba Yaga, and they have been luring countless guests to their home in order to slowly murder and cannibalize them. This only applies to the main game, as the Chompettes Origins is from the perspective of Ryna/Raspberry.
-   Towards the climax of _Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair_, it's revealed that all the quirky, but not exactly evil, students are actually dangerous terrorists put in a Lotus-Eater Machine in an attempt to be rehabilitated. In fact, Hajime Hinata, as his alter ego and Junko Enoshima's second-in-command, Izuru Kamukura, is responsible for not just the events of the game, but also the Tragedy that sparked _the entire series_. By the end, however, all the survivors choose to atone for their actions, and in-game most of them are decent people who don’t act villainously, with the exception of the various culprits.
    -   Further subverted in the Despair Arc of _Danganronpa 3: The End of Hope's Peak High School_, which reveals that all the students had been brainwashed by Junko, though this is a Fan-Disliked Explanation.
-   Servant Avenger from _Fate/hollow ataraxia_, originally the Greater-Scope Villain of the original story, is definitely a Villain Protagonist - he _is_ supposed to be Evil Incarnate, after all. His soul itself is twisted and Always Chaotic Evil, and he actively pursues murder and rape to pass the time. This does not prevent him from becoming a character you can sympathise with, especially after the flashback to his horrific Start of Darkness and some very poignant conversations with other characters. Despite hating humanity, he still shoulders the responsibility that was forced onto him - to bear every sin ever committed and will be committed by a human and forever serve as a twisted 'champion' of humanity. The ending is complete with a Tear Jerking Heroic Sacrifice.
    
    "Even if humanity is worthless, the history that has been laid down until now has meaning.  
    (...) It is not a sin to exist."
    
-   Deconstructed with Keisuke Takato from _Euphoria_. At first glance, he's an Ordinary High-School Student, but he's bottling up some rather serious sadistic tendencies when it comes to sex. The thing is, he knows that these tendencies are socially unacceptable and wasn't planning on acting on them - too bad he's been thrown into a Deadly Game in which everyone's survival rests entirely on him succumbing to his violent urges. Your choices decide whether he changes for the better... or the worse.
-   _Never 7_ attempts to subvert traditional visual novel dating sim storytelling by placing the player in the shoes of the character who would typically be considered The Rival. Although Makoto begins the game as simply a lazy womanizer, over the course of the game he ends up assaulting a small dog, grooming a child to date him, lashing out in anger whenever events don't go his way, fantasizing about breaking all of the bones of a middle schooler, and even attacking fellow main characters who attempt to explain to him what's really been going on behind the scenes of the game.
    -   This comes to a head in the two final routes of the game. In the original final route, it's pointed out to Makoto how much his actions are harming those around him, which is followed up by Makoto conspiring to mentally torture his rival in the game, and if the player so wishes, they can even make him cheat on his lover while all of this is going on.
    -   In the revised final route of the game, it's revealed that the entirety of every route has been Makoto's fantasy in his own mind as he repeats the events infinitely until getting the result he desires, and changing reality to match his dream. Taking this in context with the ending where he breaks free of curé syndrome, and enters the real world again, it can be assumed that every other route involved him attempting to romance a girl that he wasn't actually dating in the real world, thus the entire game can be seen as a delusional man attempting to change reality to force the women around him to like him.
-   About halfway through _Saya no Uta_, it’s revealed that the protagonist Fuminori Sakisaka and female lead Saya are an insane, cannibalistic killer and an amoral Eldritch Abomination, respectively. Although Fuminori doesn't start out that way, only becoming evil if he chooses to stay with her at the first branching point and crosses the Moral Event Horizon, and they're both sympathetic.
-   _Umineko: When They Cry_ loves to play with this trope, at least in-universe. Namely, in the 5th Arc, Battler become the Endless Sorcerer while a Mary Sue of Bernkastel's creation takes up the in-universe 'protagonist' role. (That is, has a reliable perspective.) In reality, though, no face heels or heel faces occur. The 'protagonist' role simply gets taken over by the two most evil characters in the series while they force the good guys into the 'antagonist' role.
-   In _Swan Song_ one of the protagonists slowly becomes this throughout the story. That being, Takuma, who has a righteous fall from grace after being betrayed numerous times throughout the story. Ultimately becoming the Big Bad by the end of the story.

    Web Animation 

-   _The Annoying Orange_: Orange is a Psychopathic Manchild who often laughs at the brutal deaths of the foods he comes across, makes his friends (especially Pear) the butt of jokes, obsesses over explosives, and makes sadistic jokes at others' expense. That being said, he is much nicer in the Cartoon Network series (not that it says much).
-   _Counterspell_: Black Mage and Bruiser are both bosses who were supposed to fight the heroes to the death only to run away and cause chaos outside of their zone.
-   The title character of Felix Colgrave's _Double King_ is a strange little creature who spends the whole cartoon running around, killing other rulers and stealing their kingdoms, all so he can wear their crowns.
-   The main cast of _Eddsworld_ counts, due to their violent, but affable behavior, but mostly Tom and Tord fall into this.
-   The title character of _Father Tucker_ is a Pedophile Priest who has gotten away with his actions due to forcing his victims into keeping quiet by claiming they'll go to Hell if they squeal on him and none of the adults suspecting anything wrong.
-   _GEOWeasel_ focuses on The Big Weas, whose goal is to take over the world, though he is not seen doing much to that end.
-   The webseries _Gotham Girls_ stars four of Batman's most prominent supporting ladies. One of them is the vigilante superhero Batgirl... and the other three are jewel thief Catwoman, eco-terrorist Poison Ivy and supporting henchgirl Harley Quinn. Their shenanigans can be entertaining, but they never let up with the thievery and crime.
-   _Happy Tree Friends_:
    -   While Lumpy is usually portrayed as well-meaning but extremely stupid, there are some episodes where he is instead portrayed as this, such as "We're Scrooged" where he murders Toothy for the sake of selling his body parts, "Banjo Frenzy" when he goes on a killing spree because nobody liked his song, and "All in Vein" when he's a vampire, and not the friendly kind.
    -   Lifty and Shifty are the focus of most episodes where they appear. They also swindle and steal from the other characters on a regular basis, often knowingly killing the victim in the process.
    -   While Splendid is usually just a Heroic Comedic Sociopath, he's this full-on in his one appearance in "Ka-Pow!" when he starts a fight with Splendont which destroys half the town and kills countless people just because Splendont wouldn't shake his hand.
    -   While Flippy isn't a villain to start with (most of the time), his Superpowered Evil Side usually takes over midway through most episodes focusing on him.
-   _Helluva Boss_: Blitzo, Moxxie, Millie, and Loona are the main protagonists in this series. As demons working in an agency in Hell that specializes in assassination and who regularly kill living humans at the request of dead sinners, they are _far_ from good guys.
-   _Llamas with Hats_: Carl is an Axe-Crazy psychopath who slaughters crews ships, nukes cities, mutilates babies to steal their hands, and eventually goes on to end all life on Earth.
-   _The Most Epic Story Ever Told in All of Human History_: Ridiculously Epic, the Big Bad, takes center stage and is more or less the main protagonist of episodes 2 and 7, “Ten Steps to Saving the World that Totally Won’t Work” and “The Most Epic Supervillain Origin Story”, respectively. He is just as evil as usual during these episodes.
-   _Mystery Skulls Animated_: "Ghost" and "Freaking Out" feature the powerful vengeful ghost Lewis as a major focus; the former song is from his perspective, and the second part of the latter video is devoted mostly to him resolving to find Vivi and get Revenge on Arthur.
-   In the prequel segments of _Red vs. Blue_, the Freelancers fall in this category... but they're not portrayed as bad guys, just as guys being told the bad things they're doing are actually for good reasons.
-   Many Youtube Poop and GoAnimate protagonists will murder, rape, and do all kinds of horrific things for little to no reason.
-   In two shows created by Mark Cope and Carlos Moss: Mackenzie Zales from _The Most Popular Girls in School_ and Dr. Havoc from _Dr. Havoc's Diary_. While the former often succeeds in her plans, the latter doesn't.

    Webcomics 

-   Black Mage of _8-Bit Theater_. Actually, every main character that isn't White Mage is not someone you'd want to share a bus ride with (and she's not that nice either). Strangely enough, Garland (the main "villain") is the next friendliest character. Fighter is mostly just played as being way too stupid to understand morality above a kindergarten level.
-   _The Antagonist_, which follows a villain after he fails. K, the Antagonist, is largely Affably Evil. He frequently talks to the readers, an act which confuses everyone around him, sounding sometimes like the narrator of a book, and he believes his life is ruled by an overreaching "plot".
-   _anti-HEROES_. The title sums it up, although we should avoid confusion by saying that they're the opposite of heroes (i.e. villains, but sympathetic and fun) NOT Anti Heroes as we know them.
-   _Bad Guy High_, which is about a school for wannabe supervillains.
-   Although the stakes in the real-life parts of _Basic Instructions_ are not particularly high, the author, Scott Meyer, has said he views his Author Avatar as one of the comic's main villains, since Comic!Scott is an asshole to his fellow employees, his company's clients, his depressed best friend, the list goes on. That being said, Comic!Scott is still shown to be A Lighter Shade of Black than, for example, Mullet Boss.
    
    **The Rant:** I’ve said that I consider myself to be the villain of the comic, and the angry customer comics are a good example of why. All he wants is for my company to do the job he paid us to do, and all he gets is abuse.
    
-   The main protagonist of _Baskets of Guts_ is a three hundred years old lich, who wants to conquer the world with an army of undead. And though for the most of the story he may seem to be funny, reasonable and kind of passive, his intentions are genuine.
-   _Beyond the Veil_ is about a deposed Galactic Emperor resurrected in the stolen body of a hapless (female) explorer. Her plan to regain her throne seems to involve spreading misinformation and fear by unleashing a genetically engineered monster and a henchman who can't remember what order to Rape, Pillage, and Burn on a medieval planet.
-   Every character in _Cry 'Havoc'_ bar Hati is greedy, violent, sadistic, or manipulative. The only defining characteristic the protagonists share is a sense of group loyalty (that may or may not be innate).
-   _Darken_ features a party of evil characters led by Gort, the Lord of Hellfire, who wants to unite the three Artifacts of Hell in order to become a demonic demi-god and rule all of Darken with an iron fist.
-   Every major character in _EVIL_, except probably Trevor. Not surprising, considering it is set in a university for villains.
-   Dr. Kinesis, and in fact, most of the main characters in _Evil Plan_. The webcomic is about supervillains, so this trope applies heavily.
-   _The Fourth_ is about Dark Lord Tiberius Skarva IV and his plans to take over the local kingdom.
-   _Goblins_ follows a band of goblins from a role-playing game, usually regarded as low-level adventurer fodder, leading you to expect it would be this. However, the goblins are actually pretty heroic. A couple of straight examples do occur in the series, though, particularly the character of K'Seliss. (K'Seliss is part of a party including a couple of more admirable characters, though; the truly _evil_ characters in the setting are never really used as viewpoint characters.)
-   The stunningly mis-named Angel of _The Good Witch_, who has a Freudian Excuse, but long since went over the Moral Event Horizon.

-   _Griefer Belt_'s main cast work for The Belt, a company that specializes in professional killing as well as organ harvesting, and they have no qualms over it.
-   Harry the Dagger is a fairly low-level example.
-   _Heist!_ stars Geist, an Intangible Man master thief who makes the same mistake Icarus did.

-   Asa and Rook of _Hotblood!_, who — when introduced to us, the audience — are hightailing it away from law inforcement. Rook notes he has a bounty of $800 on his head (a lot of money, for The Wild West).
-   Jerome in _Hungry City_ is an unscrupulous vampire who has no qualms about hunting humans for food, and only the Zombie Apocalypse happening all around him forces him to protect the one human survivor he manages to find, rather than drain her dry right out of the gate.
-   _Jared_ features three main characters who are all varying shades of evil; Jared, Mary and Lilac, as well as some with questionable motives; corrupt police officer Carl and Hat Cat. The good guy is not introduced until the last page of the first arc.
-   _The Last Days of Foxhound_ is as pure an example of this trope as you can find, given that the six lead characters are all the freak mercenary terrorists that Solid Snake must fight in _Metal Gear Solid_. It's also a subversion. Foxhound might be villains by the time of _Metal Gear Solid_, but they start out the comic as heroes working for the US government, and remain so right up until the very end, where they become heroes working against The Patriots, Metal Gear's version of the Illuminati.
-   _Life and Death_ while played for laughs, Steve takes his job as Death seriously and murders a lot of people as does his assistant Sally.

-   _Minion Comics_ focuses on the lives of minions who sign up with an evil organization.
-   _Narbonic_'s protagonists are evil, but it's cute fluffy evil. The Mad Scientist is an upbeat, plump, 26-year old blonde woman (aging to ~32 by the end of the strip's run) with pink glasses and a T-shirt that says "evil" with the "i" dotted with a heart. They're all Card Carrying Villains, too.
-   Really, were you expecting anything different from a webcomic named _Nefarious_? Crow is as delightfully evil as he was in his game.
-   _NonPack_ is a Mature Animal Story about Gangbangers struggling for power in a World of Funny Animals version of Puerto Rico. The protagonists, Los Satos, are a criminal gang of thieves and drug dealers. However, A Lighter Shade of Black is in full effect for them; they care for each other like a Family of Choice<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , and the other crooks they deal with are much worse than they are.
-   _Project Blackfire_ follows a group of bank robbers/supervillains turned mercenaries.
-   The eponymous characters of the Mega Crossover _Roommates_ are Jareth the Goblin King, Erik, Javert, and Norrington.
-   _Second Empire_ has the Daleks of the Second Dalek Empire going against the slightly more evil First Dalek Empire.
-   _The Secret Knots_: The protagonist in "11 signs you are not getting enough sleep" turns out to be a murderous werewolf, who doesn't remember anything they've done while transformed.
-   _The Sins_. Sure they are the Anthropomorphic Personifications of The Seven Deadly Sins and no matter how innocent their unwitting host is they lose their soul instantly, but they are also pretty fun guys to have around. That they are also Punch Clock Villains and Affably Evil helps.
-   Bun Bun of _Sluggy Freelance_ is a sociopathic, switchblade-wielding, possibly immortal madman (well, madrabbit) who cuts anything that annoys him, and he was actually the protagonist of a story arc.
-   _String Theory (2009)_ is about Dr. Schtein's descent into villainy.
-   The title characters of _Succubus Justice_ are soul stealing demons who regularly mutilate innocent people.
-   _Total Undead Drama_: Storm is pretty much the lead and considered the villain of the story due to the fact he's the one that turns and leads the growing vampire coven. Starting with his turning of Sadie and Katie and things escalating when Courtney finds out and sets her sights on staking him.
-   _True Villains_ is about a former Nominal Hero trying out the dark side of the alignment divide with a Card-Carrying Villain demon, an Ax-Crazy Necromancer, and a power-hungry mage. It doesn't take him too long to stop being put off by how _fun_ his new boss finds villainy.
-   The Grey-and-Grey Morality of _Two Rooks_ complicates matters, but protagonist Dea O'Malley _is_ a ruthless assassin working for a crime syndicate, and his opposite number, Serus Eden, _is_ undeniably A Lighter Shade of Grey. But neither side is all that nice.
-   _unOrdinary_: John Doe is an heroic and kind high-school student at first, but as him and his best friend Seraphina get systematically bullied by the entire school, he eventually vows to beat all the elite students and destroy their hierarchy. He succeeds, but while those students learn from it and start working to improve their environment, John refuses to forgive them and begins to rule the school as a tyrant, actually thwarting the other students' efforts to end the bullying.
-   The _Vampire Cheerleaders_ were meant to come across as a group of comedic sociopaths, but wound up being perceived as this trope instead, due to the severity of some of their actions. They officially became villains during the _"Vampire Cheerleaders Must Die!"_ crossover which cast the _Paranormal Mystery Squad_ as heroic antagonists, who were out to save Bakertown High from Lori and her Coven of vampires.
-   _Voodoo Walrus_ ended their first year with a massive storyline focusing on baddies Mac and Shmeerm viciously taking down _Big Bad_ Cyradwee and every last one of his underlings.
-   _When She Was Bad_ focuses on Gail Swanson, a gang member who accidentally receives some superpowers meant for Amber Price, who is The Chosen One and also happens to be an Alpha Bitch who bullied her in high school. Rather than be a hero like Amber, Gail decides to use her powers to become a supervillain.
-   Arthur Yahtzee from _Yahtzee Takes On The World_ (by Yahtzee) is a wannabe Evil Genius who's trying to take over the world.
-   _Yet Another Fantasy Gamer Comic_ is from the point of view of a group of evil humanoids (and unnatural beings) living underground.
-   _Your Throne_: The protagonist is Lady Medea Solon who is an ambitious and murderous noble who desires the throne for herself and will go to ruthless aims to get it. Her being opposed by far worse opponents makes her A Lighter Shade of Black, however.
-   In _Zebra Girl_, the eponymous character's transformation into a demon was initially Played for Laughs, but the long-running Cerebus Syndrome is turning her into a Villain Protagonist.
-   Ziggy Pig is the central character of _Ziggy Pig and Silly Seal (2022)_, and he's _definitely_ not nice — he hatches a plan to Frame-Up various Marvel Comics animal super-beings being rude in order to raise his own reputation, starts a super-villain team to battle the Pet Avengers, sneaks pineapples onto pizzas, and ends up getting his friend beaten up in prison on a daily basis.

    Web Original 

-   _30 Days in Spring_: Ryan Rhodes, who has spent his life hurting others and goes on a killing spree when stranded deep in the woods.
-   Muschio in _Dive Quest_'s goal is to "become the Devil" and has no qualms about burning down peaceful villages and assassinating his rivals to get his way.
    
    Muschio: When I was very young, I asked my mother what I would have grown up to be, if I were not the Prince. She told me, "Muschio. Whatever you desire, that you shall have tenfold. If you want to be a soldier, you will become a general. If you want to be a monk, you shall become pope." I wanted to be a villain. \*Beat\* And I do not intend to stop until I have become the Devil.
    
-   Whichever way you look at it in _Farce of the Three Kingdoms._ Liu Bei, the Designated Hero, is cowardly, hypocritical, and self-centered, and Zhuge Liang is arguably an irredeemable monster. Cao Cao is generally more likable, and frequently Pets The Dog, but he's definitely a paranoid, murderous tyrant. Sun Quan is A Lighter Shade of Grey, but he gets much less focus.
-   Iriana from _Ilivais X_ gradually becomes this. At first, she's mostly freaked out, having narrowly escaped from an eternity of servitude to an empire that half-unwittingly tortured her for more than half of her life. As such, she spends her first week or so taking respite, learning to use the eponymous robot, defending herself, getting in close with Mille, and generally being moderately suspicious but even pitiable at times. But soon she realizes the infinitely destructive power of her robot, and her grudge against the Aztecs and the world in general begins to surface. She begins antagonizing the empires far more adamantly for little reason aside from wanting them destroyed, manipulates and forces people into serving her (especially Mille), and shows an unwillingness to accept things that aren't in her control- and if that doesn't change, she deigns to erase it from existence.
-   In _The Iron Teeth_, Blacknail frequently murders and steals, and does not even comprehend why any action that doesn't further his or his master's interests might be morally wrong.
-   Unlike most superhero-based Shared Universes, the _Metaverse_ focuses primarily on the villains. And then, a lot of the heroes aren't all that heroic....
-   _Migraine_ has Ken Muntz, a seemingly typical American wanting to earn money to buy a new apartment. It's later revealed that he's a serial killer who kidnaps people, kills them, and sells their flesh on the Black Market so he can use said money to buy said apartment.
-   The version of Billy Mays featured in Nashmetal100's YouTube Poop videos is depicted as a downright Jerkass, being depicted as racist towards black people, Germans, and Mexicans in "The Billy Mays Dating Experience", constantly interrupting Anthony Sullivan's attempt to sell a product in at least two videos of his, and even going as far as to murder Vince Offer.
-   _A Practical Guide to Evil_: Cat, the protagonist of the series is nominally aligned to Evil (capital E) in order to protect her kingdom from the abuses of Praes. Over time, however, she definitly commits enough atrocities to deserve being called a villain.
-   Michael from _The Salvation War_. Though the humans are undoubtedly the real heroes of the story, Michael acts as our main viewpoint in Heaven, and has quite sympathetic motivations in wanting to limit the damage done to Heaven when the humans inevitably invade, even as he keeps crossing the Moral Event Horizon to accomplish this.
-   _SF Debris_ portrays Captain Janeway of _Star Trek: Voyager_ in this way — a power-crazed, murderous sadist who is deliberately spreading chaos throughout the Delta Quadrant and has set up a Xanatos Gambit to gain control of the Alpha Quadrant.
-   The Blogfic Soon, I will Rule The World! has one of these. He's a Lich who has come to our world to take it over. He hasn't really crossed the Moral Event Horizon yet, and he's decent to his minions, but does collect protection money from a substantial chunk of the city and did try (and fail) to hypnotize some orphans to mess with his nemesis. Though it is implied (Albeit barely, though the author says that more on that is planned) that he does have a Freudian Excuse.
-   Deconstructed with Rast Racklyn from _Tails of Fame_. Rast turns to a life of crime in order to get famous, but the story shows that everything he does is horrific, absolutely nothing he does is justified, and he only cares about himself and his ego.
-   _Whateley Universe_:
    -   The story "Mimeographic", featuring the supervillain Mimeo. He's not an amoral street thug. He's an amoral street thug with unstoppable superpowers.
    -   Or "It's Good to be the Don", told from the viewpoint of Don Sebastiano.
    -   Or the Jobe stories. Or "Razzle Dazzle", told by a supervillain who may have been, among other supervillains, the legendary Cerebrex. It's hard to be sure, since it clearly has an Unreliable Narrator.
    -   "The Final Trump" and "The Mark of Miss Scarlet" feature the Harrow family, who are three generations of Affably Evil supervillains, con artists, and dark wizards.
-   In _Worm_, not only is the protagonist a villain (well, sort of, at first — although she later becomes one for sort-of real) but most of the perspectives seen via Interludes are also villainous. Anti-villainy varies greatly.
-   Psycho Gecko is a murderous, insane supervillain protagonist in the Web Serial Novel _World Domination in Retrospect_. Black Comedy and Bloody Hilarious violence abound.

    Web Videos 

-   _Barney Bunch_ stars Drew Pickles as the gayest man in the universe, with his videos having him going to places, only to go on rampages ranging from raping men or beating women to death with his dick for being women often over minor inconveniences. Such "offenses" include extremely long lines, workers refusing to make his disgusting meal requests, or just about anything that wrongs him.
    -   _Secret Missing Episodes_, a offshoot of _Barney Bunch_, tends to do this if the protagonists of shows do depraved acts in the style of Drew Pickles, especially if they’re made a pedophile.
-   The point of the entire series _Cause of Death_, where individual serial killers and psychos end up joining together and, in some cases, dueling against one another. It's up to the viewer to decide who to root for, because everyone in the show is going to Hell anyway.
-   Channel Awesome:
    -   The most blatant example on the site would be Diamanda Hagan, who is an actual supervillain.
    -   Ask That Guy with the Glasses is a rapist, commits Domestic Abuse, a pedophile, a murderer, works for the devil and yet still stays sympathetic and charming.
    -   Bennett the Sage, who disgusts and terrifies even That Guy with the Glasses, and may or may not _be_ Satan.
    -   In _Kickassia_, The Nostalgia Critic, who even dresses up as M. Bison.
-   All the main characters in _SuperMarioLogan_ can easily qualify. Bowser Jr., Jeffy, and Black Yoshi are the biggest cases, but other characters like Brooklyn Guy, Chef Pee Pee, and even Mario himself can be villainous at times. On the whole, they have attempted to murder others and sometimes each other, pull felonies like robberies, blackmail, and theft, and tend to cause chaos with their stupidity and immaturity.
-   Doctor Horrible from _Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog_ is a self-proclaimed supervillain, and the story opens with him practicing his Evil Laugh. As a nerdy, Affably Evil, Well-Intentioned Extremist, he's contrasted starkly with Hero Antagonist Captain Hammer, who is closer to a Knight Templar Villain with Good Publicity than anything resembling an actual hero. Though this really counts as a Deconstruction: Billy/Dr. Horrible insists that Utopia Justifies the Means, but even he seems confused sometimes about his motives (_"All the cash, all the fame — and social change!/Anarchy, that I run..."_), in contrast to Penny's more traditional, charitable methods of improving the world. And, of course, there's the ending.
-   _Jerma985_ gradually becomes increasingly psychotic in his in-universe persona starting in 2017, having murdered Santa Claus and various memes, unleashing a Humanoid Abomination by mistake and devouring people on a hot-air balloon trip, though he's still firmly in the category of a Laughably Evil Noble Demon.
-   _S&D Tier_ follows two supervillains, Alex and Morgan. While they have wildly contrasting levels of danger (Alex is a Nigh-Invulnerable Hero Killer, Morgan has a practically useless power and prefers to focus on heists), neither of them are exactly good people. Morgan may be less dangerous than Alex, but they're still perfectly fine hanging out with a mass murderer.

___