The White Magician Girl is a Stock Character appearing in Fantasy Literature and Role Playing Games, acting as the party's resident healer, nurturer and source of feminine wisdom. While the other party members are slaughtering opponents, the White Magician Girl is taking care of their wounds with gentleness and compassion, and congratulating them after the battle with her brilliant smile. She is often included as a female lead because Guys Smash, Girls Shoot or as a foil to a less traditionally feminine Action Girl. She's basically the White Mage infused with Incorruptible Pure Pureness.

There are three essential elements of the White Magician Girl:

-   **Girly Girl:** The White Magician Girl is classically female and always feminine. Tomboys, Sweet Polly Olivers, and Bifauxnen need not apply (though a Tomboy with a Girly Streak **may** be spotted once in a while). Femininity will usually be emphasized in her character design with the use of long hair and overtly feminine clothing, such as dresses or robes. Male analogs, which are rare, will mimic the same gentle appearance, sometimes to the extent of wearing long robes and long hair (or perhaps a suitably pious hat).
-   **Takes a support role in combat:** A White Magician Girl's primary role in combat is performing healing and/or support abilities, usually through White Magic. As a result, they usually have relatively poor physical combat skills. Although classic for the look, their weapon is not always a Magic Staff; blunt objects like maces, scepters, or hammers are common, as are ranged weapons, such as bows. In the _very_ rare cases where she uses a bladed weapon, it's usually a knife or rapier (the latter is common if she's also a princess) at _largest_. Improbable Weapon User White Magician Girls are not unheard of, especially heart-shaped weapons. It's also not unknown for them to have some offensive magical capabilities as well, though not to the extent of a Black Magician Girl or Lady of Black Magic. One common exception is when battling the undead or demons, in which case she may possess some frighteningly powerful offensive spells that work only on those beings. In these cases, if she is some manner of priestess, then you can count on her wielding a Holy Hand Grenade.
-   **Caring and compassionate:** White Magician Girls have nurturing, motherly tendencies that tie-in with their feminine appearance and white magic. Very often they act as The Heart or Team Mom of their party. Common personality types include being The Pollyanna, The Ingenue, Proper Lady, Yamato Nadeshiko, or an All-Loving Hero. More rarely, they may be a Plucky Girl. White Magician Girls are almost never a straight Genki Girl, Tomboy, or Tsundere type, although mild tendencies are not disqualifiers.

While not a requirement, she is frequently the Love Interest of The Hero, which typically places her as half of a Sword and Sorcerer combination, and will generally overlap with traditionally feminine fantasy archetypes such as the Rebellious Princess or Mystical Waif. It's not uncommon for them to be princesses (rebellious or not), pacifists, or clergy. Characters of this archetype are frequently paired with a Black Mage, usually a Black Magician Girl or Lady of Black Magic, as a foil.

Note that whiteness in race is not required for this trope, only the use of white magic. See also The Medic, White Mage, and The Heart. This trope is _almost_ the inverse of the Black Magician Girl. Not to be confused with Magical Girl, although it does commonly overlap.

___

## Examples

    open/close all folders 

     Anime & Manga 

-   Mimosa from _Black Clover_ is a kind girl who'll heal anyone regardless of whether they're a different race or enemy, and explicitly described as the healer of the group.
-   Falin from _Delicious in Dungeon_, the original party's cleric, capable of everything from spirit possession wards to escape magic and exorcism.
-   _Dragon Quest: The Adventure of Dai_ has two female White Magic users among the main cast. Maam, the party's staff-wielding Combat Medic and Team Mom, has elements of this trope, but she's quickly overshadowed by Spirited Young Lady and Big Good Princess Leona. While Leona is worse in a straight fight than Maam<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  she has much better healing abilities, and a combination of empathy and pragmatism that allow her to be more effective at the emotional side of her job as well. In fact even Maam herself starts to realise that the only thing she has to offer over Leona is being less busy; this leads her to start focusing more on hand-to-hand combat, moving away from this trope and towards Emotional Bruiser Action Girl.
-   In _Final Fantasy: Lost Stranger_, Sharuru is a capable White Mage capable of casting healing spells all the way up to Curaga. But she admits that she's far from omnipotent and White Magic is only good for stemming bleeding, closing gashes, and alleviating pain. She can't fix broken bones, restore lost limbs, or revive the dead.
-   In _Legend of Heavenly Sphere Shurato_, Lakshu is this through and through since she's not a fighter, but being a priestess of Vishnu (and eventually her successor, but nobody know that) allows her to use her spiritual energy (_sohma_) to heal people.
-   _Record of Lodoss War_: Leylia appears like this trope initially, being a kind healer cleric and all, in but _Chronicles of the Heroic Knight_ she shows she's not above using bladed weapons with brutal efficiency when the situation calls for it.
-   _Rune Soldier Louie_: As a Mylee priestess, Melissa knows _some_ offensive spells, but her main function is to provide support for Jeanie and Merrill with defensive spells and healing magic. Once Louie joins them, he makes it a point to keep Melissa covered, since he's her appointed champion... though it's against her will.

    Comic Strips 

-   Piffany in _Nodwick_ is an example played for comedy. She's a kind, adorable, pure-hearted, Friend to All Living Things, but not overly bright robe-clad staff-wielding cleric. Piffany's the party healer and Morality Pet in an adventuring group with two comedic sociopaths and their chew-toy henchman, whom she regularly resurrects with her Duct Tape of Healing. She also, canonically, the best cookies in the universe.

    Fan Works 

-   _Libra And Gemini_: Vesa Krasniqi, the love interest of Fecto Elfilis, is revealed to be this.
-   _The Keys Stand Alone: The Soft World_: Chana of the mine-robbers, noted explicitly as the only human among them who counseled against attacking Paul. The "PC Dialogue" behind this particular incident (and available directly from the author if you want it) indicates that Chana is the party's cleric and has that classic support role. Mildly ironic in that she's black.
-   _The Night Unfurls_: Clad in white vestments with a hood and a skirt (aka. the White Church Set), Lily is a cleric / healer who treats the wounded in the tents and uses healing spells to support the other Hunters during combat. Contrary to what her role would suggest, she is also adept at stabbing her foes with the Church Pick, a bladed weapon, and setting The Horde on fire. During the Rad Incursion, she is shown to be capable of switching between healing the heavy hitters and destroying her enemies (i.e., multitasking). Personality-wise, the former nun treats her allies with respect and tenderness.

    Film — Live Action 

-   _Mythica_: Teela, the priestess. Support character? Check. Healing magic? Check. Carries a staff? Check.

    Literature 

-   _Amaranthine Saga_: The titular heroine of _Tsumiko and the Enslaved Fox_ is an extremely gentle and compassionate person but she is a very powerful class of Reaver, known as a Beacon. Throughout the story, her abilities are solely used to nurture others, while she leaves the physical fighting up to others. She is eventually contrasted with Anna Starmark, a Beacon of similar power level, who is also a fierce warrior.
-   In J. R. R. Tolkien's _Beren and Lúthien_, the titular heroine uses singing magic to perform all kind of effects, such like healing wounds, putting people to sleep, making her hair grow, weaving magic cloaks...and blowing fortresses apart. She is also wise, compassionate and very bold. It is justified, since her mother is an Ainu (essentially, an angel), and the Middle-Earth universe was sung into existence by the Ainur as told in _The Silmarillion_.
-   _Dragonlance_: Goldmoon is the bearer of a powerful magical staff who sought to inspire the people to a return to faith in the gods. She is the High Priestess of her people. Goldmoon is a nurturing being and an encouraging and persuasive speaker. Her attire, however, is atypical, as she is a _barbarian_ noble and cleric.
-   _Goblin Slayer_: Priestess is a caring and gentle young girl that specializes in healing and protective spells, wears white and gold, carries an ornate staff, as well as being the moral core of the group.
-   _High School D×D_: Having been formerly a nun and devout Catholic, Asia Argento's sweet and compassionate to everyone, and her Sacred Gear is even called Twilight Healing. While she does learn some elemental magic later on, she's still mainly a healer.
-   _KonoSuba_: Aqua serves as the team's healer and has a powerful ability to eliminate undead. She also has the ability to purge corruption, which comes in handy when the team gets a quest to purify a lake. Unfortunately, Aqua has difficulty controlling her purification powers, which results in virtually any liquid she gets near turning into water.
-   Nahlia Cole from _The Lost Redeemer_. All of her abilities revolve around healing and protection in some way. Even when she's learning combat in Whitecliff Academy, she takes a pacifist approach and refuses to hurt anyone.
-   _Slayers_:
    -   Sylphiel Nels Lahda is extremely gifted at the healing and protection ends of White Magic compared to other users in the series, is kind and caring, and has a huge crush on the swordsman Gourry.
    -   Inverted with Naga the Serpent and Amelia Wil Tesla Saillune. Both of them are exceptionally gifted in white magic (it runs in the family) and are both very competent healers, yet Naga smacks of Black Magician Girl due to her personality and outfit, and Amelia is very much a tomboy Action Girl.
-   _Villains by Necessity_: Kaylana, who's the party healer and voice of wisdom. She holds them together through crises, and provides support to the rest, mostly refraining from direct combat. The source of her power is also a staff.

    Tabletop Games 

-   Implied by the "wizard character types" in _GURPS Magic_ (3rd ed). Most of them treat "he" as generic, but the Healer (and only the Healer) says "He (or she!)" (exclamation mark in the original).

    Video Games 

-   _Abyss Crossing_: Lorin specializes in healing and light elemental spells, and has an easygoing personality.
-   _Arc Rise Fantasia_: Ryfia is a very kindhearted, if a bit Innocently Insensitive Mysterious Waif, who's contrasted with Black Magician Girl Adelle. In combat, Ryfia uses a Magic Staff and has several healing Excel Acts, as well as starting with a Water orb, which grants healing spells. The only part that one wouldn't expect of her is that she's got Nerves of Steel, and remains completely unfazed no matter what.
-   The _Baldur's Gate_ games has a few odd examples.
    -   Viconia DeVir is a inverted example as she's the best cleric in the game (especially in the sequel where she's the only pure cleric and her Wisdom is maxed out and has excellent Charisma on top of it), but she's evil aligned and a massive jerk.
    -   Another example is Aerie. while technically a Red Mage since she's a Mage/Cleric hybrid, her behaviour screams of this trope.
-   _Breath of Fire_ often subverts the trope. Only the first and fourth games really play the trope straight with Nina, and even then _Breath of Fire IV_ gave her some offensive magic to let her qualify more as The Red Mage.
-   Marle from _Chrono Trigger_, who is also a Rebellious Princess. She's a little more of a tomboy than normal, but she makes up for it by being extra compassionate. She's also Crono's Love Interest, for bonus points.
-   Among its massive cast of playable characters, _Chrono Cross_ has Lady Riddel, whose techs are all dedicated to support roles like healing or buffing. There's a few other characters that could be played similarly, like Leena or Irenes.
-   _Corruption of Laetitia_: Riliane starts as a traditional white mage, in that she's a kindhearted person who focuses mainly on healing magic. However, with the right choices, she can change her class to become a more combat-oriented healer.
-   _Darkest Dungeon_: The Vestal is the game's traditional healer, with very strong group and individual healing skills. She performs best in the back row, having access to all her healing options and ranged attacks that provide some utility. While a front-line Vestal can dish out much more damage with her mace, it weakens her ability to support her team and it's much more inefficient until you have to proper trinkets to support it.
-   Brother Angelico from _Dead In Vinland_ is a rare gender flip, being an Endearingly Dorky Pretty Boy with a long white robe and a nervous stutter who's gentle, physically frail, determined to be helpful, and has some healing ability and a support role in combat. He's even a potential love interest for Kari, despite an inconvenient vow of chastity. Subverted to HELL and back when he turns out to be a Serial Killer.
-   _Disgaea_
    -   Love Freak Flonne from the first game, and _Disgaea 3: Absence of Justice_.
    -   After _Disgaea 2_, Nippon Ichi games have any generic Healer unit. While the mentor system can be used to get healing magic from one person to another, the Healers are all female, and can wield staves (bows are useful too), and are always dressed in elegant dresses with long hair. They believe that healing their wounded comrades is a necessity and thus they are committed to developing their skills and school of magic. In contrast, the male healers believe that healing the injured in the battlefield is a sin and wear barbed robes as a form of atonement.
-   Wynne from _Dragon Age: Origins_ is a rare _elderly_ example of this archetype, being around _sixty_ when she first meets the Warden. Once she joins the group, she quickly falls into the role of the resident Healer, frequently is shown to offer kind words of wisdom to various characters and becomes the unofficial Team Mom (or Team Grandma if you prefer) of the group. Aside from Morrigan, it's clear that _no one_ has a bad thing to say about her. Most of the other healing mages you encounter throughout the series are men, and none can match Wynne's nurturing, maternal nature.
-   _Dragon Quest_:
    -   The Princess of Moonbrooke in _Dragon Quest II_ is a very early RPG example, debuting all the way back in '87. While she may have set a (possibly) unfortunate trend for RPG females, she's still a vast improvement over the Damsels in Distress that were so common at the time. Ironically enough, she's more of a Red Mage than her successors since she learns the strongest attack spells in the game.
    -   Serena in _Dragon Quest XI_ is a healing mage with a mild-mannered ingenue personality. She contrasts with her sister Veronica, a hot-tempered Black Magician Girl.
-   _Final Fantasy_:
    -   Rosa from _Final Fantasy IV_ was almost a prototype for the breed, except her non-magical archery was often a match for some melee characters. She could wield a staff as well, but her best weapons were bows and arrows.
        -   Porom from the same game also counts. She is not as brash as her brother, and tends to actually keep him in line. And Porom along with her brother do temporarily sacrifice themselves to save the rest of the party. Rydia would also count except that she lost the ability to cast White Magic when she was taken to the Land of Summons.
    -   Aerith from _Final Fantasy VII_ is probably one of the more famous examples of this trope. However, years of Flanderization thanks to her appearance in _Kingdom Hearts_ made people think that she's full on this trope when she actually was just downplaying it in the original game: She might have supportive Limit Breaks and specializes in magic power and generally nice... but she's also more sneaky, teasing, street-smart and generally more outgoing compared to the resident martial arts girl Tifa.
    -   Garnet/Dagger from _Final Fantasy IX_ uses magical "rackets" as well as staves. She fit this trope to a T until she starts getting her summons back, at which point she shifts to a more offensive-oriented character. Interestingly, this change is also marked by her cutting her long hair.
        -   Despite her superior White Magic, Eiko is absolutely _not_ a White Magician Girl. She's aggressive, tomboyish, and her flirting as cheesy and annoying as Zidane's.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> 
    -   Yuna in _Final Fantasy X_ is the mystical, kind hearted, white mage willing to die for temporary peace. Averted in _Final Fantasy X-2_ where Yuna has as much access as Rikku and Paine to all manner of death-dealing hardware and has loosened up since she no longer has her summoner duty but she's still kind hearted.
    -   In _Final Fantasy Tactics_, Alma Beoulve and Princess Ovelia are both exclusively White Mages, and are comparatively more feminine and passive than the other Action Girls in the game.
    -   All these may be preceded by the White Mage of the original _Final Fantasy_. Whilst all player characters in the game have no explicit gender, the White Mage is often assumed to be female due to their soft appearance. In the GBA and PSP remakes, the White Mage has mostly female names in contrast to the other classes who have mostly male names.
-   _Fire Emblem_:
    -   In several of the games, one of the first allies will be a Cleric (on-foot female White Mage) or a Priest (on-foot male White Mage), and some rounds later the player will be able to recruit a Troubadour (mounted White Mage), and sometimes a Valkyrie (mounted Red Mage or mounted Magic Knight), a Sage (basically the same, but on foot and with either gender), or a Bishop (Light magic user _and_ healer that promotes from Clerics, Priests or the all-male Monks, which use offensive magic instead of staves).
    -   _Genealogy of the Holy War_:
        -   Edain, like most of the female characters, has a bit of Plucky Girl in her, but she gets bonus femininity points for being the latter half of a Tomboy and Girly Girl pair with her long-lost twin sister Briggid, a Sniper who was adopted by a pirate chieftain and now serves as their leader.
        -   Deirdre, the wife of protagonist Sigurd, might also qualify. She has light magic capabilities as well, but her low stats in everything other than magic and heavy tome make her unfit to get in any serious combat, and one of her first jobs upon arrival is to use her Silence staff to neutralize a VERY dangerous enemy mage. She's also The Ingenue and an All-Loving Hero (though ironically, she also has the bloodline of the _anti_\-messiah, making her integral to the villains' plans).
        -   Also in the first generation, the bishop Claud is a male example. Though he does have combat capabilities upon arrival as he is already a promoted High Priest, he doesn't have any offensive magic upon his arrival whereas he _does_ have some of the most powerful healing staves, and can only use the most basic spells while being the only one who can use the most powerful staff.
        -   In the second generation, Edain's daughter Lana is the primary one, filling the same role as her mother, although depending on who her father is she has the potential to become more of a Red Mage after promotion. Though the second generation's protagonist Seliph can marry almost any of his female comrades, Lana has the biggest head start.
        -   Julia, Deirdre and Arvis's daughter, is borderline. Much like Claud, she starts out with the capability to use offensive magic, but no offensive magic available for her to use, plus Lana will hand her a healing staff very soon. She's a bit better than her mother at holding her own in combat once she gets an offensive spellbook, but this can be attributed in large part to a spell that also heals _herself_ upon a successful hit. And she's got the personality—like most, a carbon copy of her mother.
        -   Nanna is another one whose qualifications are borderline, and perhaps in some ways dependent on her heritage.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Personality definitely fits, since she's gentle and calm but not exactly willowy. She is also the canonical love interest of the fifth game's protagonist.
        -   Coipre, son of the dancer Silvia, is a male example. Shows up late in the game at a low level and without any offensive abilities, but strong healing abilities (his mother Silvia also has the Blaggi bloodline, so he'll have a bonus to staff level). If the aforementioned Claud is his father, he has a good chance to become the best healer in the whole game.
        -   Muirne and Charlot, the replacement characters for Lana and Coipre respectively, also qualify.
    -   _Fire Emblem: Thracia 776:_
        -   Safy is possibly the straightest example of all.
        -   Nanna is probably a straighter example here than she is in _Genealogy of the Holy War_, though she still has the ability to use swords.
        -   Sara is another one who borders on Red Mage territory, but her Staff rank is much higher than her rank in any offensive magic type and she's the only unit capable of using the Stone\-curing Kia Staff.
        -   The priest Sleuf is another male example, and does his best to emulate his mentor Claud. And is implied to have Claud's soul as his Spirit Advisor.
    -   _Fire Emblem: The Binding Blade_:
        -   Ellen (Cleric) is the straightest example. Clarine plays the role from a gameplay standpoint (Troubador) but lacks the personality (_highly_ Tsundere, kind of a Rich Bitch), and Saul (Priest) could be a male example if not for his Handsome Lech tendencies.
        -   Elphin the bard could be considered a male example. His role is strictly support (in gameplay, anyway; he also has plot relevance as he's actually Prince Mildain of Etruria), and he's got the serene and serious personality that his female counterpart Lalum (Genki Girl Dancer) lacks.
        -   Cecilia may also qualify. She shows up later in the game and as such is already capable of combat as well (Valkyrie), but she's got the personality and is probably best used for support.
    -   _Fire Emblem: The Blazing Blade_:
        -   Priscilla, a Troubadour, is a sweet, kind-hearted girl. Her abilities are strictly support until she promotes to a Valkyrie, at which point she moves into Red Mage territory.
        -   Ninian and Nils, the latter of which is a Rare Male Example, are interesting examples. They both definitely fit the personality type and neither has any combat skills at all. Their abilities squeeze in under White Mage for being purely support related, either giving a unit a second turn or providing a status buff, rather than any heals. They get extra points for being a pair of Mystical Waifs. Ninian is even one of The Hero's three prospect Love Interests.
        -   Lucius (Monk), once he is promoted from his Monk class to Bishop. He is a caring, compassionate, will look out for people he loves, and is Bishōnen (so much that a lot of members of your party will mistake him for a girl). He is a powerful light magic user, but his defense is so abysmal that he should be kept away from the front lines at all cost. Once he is promoted, he becomes a very useful healer and staff-user.
    -   _Fire Emblem: The Sacred Stones_:
        -   Natasha is a Cleric who joins up early in the game. Lacks any offensive magic at first, is a Defector from Decadence who hails from the country whose leadership is the antagonists, and quickly manages to win a powerful hired sword to switch sides via words only.
        -   The Troubladour L'Arachel is a little more Tsundere than typical but still fits nicely into the trope. She may be the only example to ever be a Large Ham.
        -   The Monk Artur hits all of the same points as the above-mentioned Lucius, except he never gets mistaken for a girl. This is especially the case if he promotes to a Bishop, though downplayed if he is promoted to a Sage.
    -   _Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance_ and _Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn:_
        -   Rhys is a Rare Male Example, being a gentle healer without any attacks. For the "Healer" part, at least until he gets promoted.
        -   Laura is a shy, sweet girl healer.
        -   Mist starts as one, but by the second game she's more of The Red Mage or a Combat Medic.
    -   _Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon & the Blade of Light_ and _Fire Emblem: Mystery of the Emblem_:
        -   Due to the nature of the Reclassing system, any female can become an example however, Lena originally defined the archetype for the series. Princess Maria joins up later and serves a similar role.
        -   Marth's sister, Elice, is an older and wiser version within ths series.
        -   Lena's apprentice Marisha and Fallen Princess Yuliya show up in the sequel.
    -   _Fire Emblem: Awakening_:
        -   Lissa and Maribelle are two. Note, though, the former can promote to War Cleric and also wield axes and hammers. They also deviate from the usual personality type of White Magician Girls, with Lissa being a somewhat tomboyish Genki Girl, and Maribelle being an epic Type A Tsundere.
        -   Maribelle's Kid from the Future Brady is a Rare Male Example. He's got a rather thuggish face and huge self-esteem problems, but is a very efficient healer and a really sweet dude.
        -   Not to forget pious and kind-hearted Libra, who's a War Monk (wields staves and, of all the things, axes). He's also takes the traditional femininity of this type of character to the extent that some of the Shepherds mistake him for a War Cleric.
        -   Sumia is a gentle Pegasus Knight who can be reclassed into a Cleric and become this. Her default Falcon Knight promotion also grants her the ability to use staves.
        -   If Noire inherits the Cleric class from a dude that she can be fathered with (like the aforementioned Libra or a Male Avatar), she can become this as well.
    -   _Fire Emblem Fates:_
        -   Hoshido and Nohr each have one in form of the youngest princess in the royal family. Sakura is a straighter example while Elise is more of a Genki Girl, but they both start out as only healers until they promote or reclass.
        -   Rare Male Example could have been be Azama, if it weren't for his rather sharp tongue and criticism towards others.
        -   Prince Leo's son Forrest would be a better example, due to his kind, sympathetic personality and effeminate appearance.
        -   The aforementioned Azama's daughter Mitama fits in skills-wise, but is more sharp-tongued than other examples.
        -   If a soft-spoken and kind character of either gender can be reclassed into a Shrine Maiden/Monk/Troubadour/Onmyouji whether via marriage, friendship, paternal/maternal inheritance (second generation) or secondary class, s/he'll probably fit here, like a Siegbert (son of Prince Xander) who gets access to either Troubadour (via friendly supports with Forrest) or Monk/Great Master (via being mothered by Sakura or marrying Mitama).
    -   _Fire Emblem Gaiden_ and its 3DS remake have examples on both routes:
        -   Silque is the first healer to appear in Alm's route and she fits in quite well with her kind and plucky personality. However, she focuses less on healing spells and more on support magic like Warp and Invoke.
        -   Genny, the first healer in Celica's route, is shy and gentle and a bit insecure.
        -   Tatiana, the Saint recruited later in Alm's route, is a bit clumsier than average but fits in perfectly otherwise, plus she has exclusive access to Fortify aka the most powerful healing spell in the game.
        -   _Echoes_ has Faye, who _can_ become a Cleric and will perform well as one (in fact, she has a unique spell and learns another much earlier than the other Clerics), but has other options. For a long time Fire Emblem Cipher cards exclusively depicted her as a member of the Pegasus Knight or Mage class tree, but she later received a Saint card, which is an upgraded version of the Cleric class. She doesn't seem to have an intended class like the other villagers from that game, but Cleric comes recommended for her as she makes a good supplement to Alm's primary White Mage Silque, and the other villager's implied classes are based on the conventional wisdom as to what class they should change to in the original. She is very sweet, although she's a lot more possessive than most examples of this trope.
    -   _Fire Emblem: Three Houses_
        -   Mercedes of the Blue Lions house is a kind and gentle young woman with a very high aptitude for White Magic. She is one of only two units capable of learning the ultimate healing spell, Fortify. Her Birthmark of Destiny also sometimes gives her extra uses of her healing spells.
        -   Flayn of the Church of Seiros is younger and a bit perkier than Mercedes, but is still a very kind and helpful young lady with a high aptitude for White Magic. Flayn is the other user of the Fortify spell, and her Birthmark of Destiny sometimes makes her healing spells more powerful.
-   _Fullmetal Alchemist: Stray Rondo_: Corniche "Cony" Royce, created specifically for the game, is an alchemist who specializes in healing alchemy. She is a kind and a little naive young girl, who wields darts in combat. Given the pointed lack of supernatural healing in the source material, she is your only way to heal, outside of items and level-ups.
-   _Genshin Impact_:
    -   Barbara is a deaconess with a sunny personality who aspires to use singing as a way of healing others. Also she literally wears a white dress, white stockings, and a white cap. She is also a support unit focused on healing with low damage output, althro with Ocean Hue artifact set or in a Hyperbloom team this can change.
    -   Kokomi is a 5-star version of Barbara, who does more damage but has an extreme crit rate penalty.
-   _Golden Sun_ has Mia, who plays this trope as straight as possible. Girl with long hair, wears feminine clothing? Check. Heals people, uses a staff? Double check. Has as her main (if not only) personality trait being caring and compassionate? Jackpot. Her son inherited all of these points.
-   Elena of _Grandia II_ is this. She wields a staff, does little in direct combat, has holy-themed magical powers, and is used mostly for healing spells. In fact, true to form, she shares a body with a Dark Magical Girl in the form of the Wings of Valmar.
-   Shana from _The Legend of Dragoon_, who wields a bow and is also a Mysterious Waif. Unlike the other playable characters, her dragoon form has a heavy emphasis on healing magic. Miranda later gains the same skillset and weapon, but her personality is too assertive to quite fit.
-   Mipha from _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_. Her magical ability, Mipha's Grace, functions much like carrying a fairy, reviving Link if he runs out of hearts while also giving him a few extra yellow hearts. In the backstory, she used her powers to heal Link of lesser injuries, and she also had a crush on him.
-   _Lunar: The Silver Star_: Luna, especially in remakes. She is a Team Mom, often reminding the others to mind their manners, dresses modestly, casts spells through Magic Music, and equips either staves or bows (in most versions), or pans (in _Legend_). In the verions with the Limit Break system hers completely heals the whole party. Her replacement as the team's healer, Jessica de Alkirk, is a priestess, but doesn't qualify for the trope for being quite a tomboy, as well as packing hammers or Wolverine Claws and damaging Limit Breaks.
-   _Majesty_ has an entire class of them: Healers, the all-female devotees and worshippers of Agrela, goddess of life and water. They tend to eschew fighting in favor of supporting and healing other hero classes (particularly the slow-but-decently-armed Warriors), plant healing herbs around the map, and are startlingly hard to put down permanently since not only does their fully-upgraded temple allow the player to cast a resurrection spell on recently-fallen heroes, but they can resurrect themselves once for every level they gain – and since they gain XP by healing, they tend to level up very quickly. Their hair is the only not-quite-accurate aspect for this trope, as they all shave their heads.
-   _Mana Series_:
    -   The Heroine/Fuji from _Final Fantasy Adventure_/_Adventures of Mana_ is a non-combat example. She will heal the Hero/Sumo if asked, but won't fight herself. Her counterpart from _Sword of Mana_, however, fights enemies with magic, and thus is an opposite of this trope.
    -   Charlotte of _Trials of Mana_. She has the most healing of the six main characters, and uses a flail as her weapon.
-   _Mega Man X: Command Mission_: Cinnamon is a sci-fi version of this, being a reploid and all. She's kind and compassionate, and has a nurse-design, with white armor and The Colored Cross on her hat. Just to drive the point home, her hair resemble _angel wings_ from most angles. In combat she has low Power, with her normal attack amounting to ineffectually slapping the enemy, but her Action Trigger is your only way to heal outside of using the heavily limited Sub Tank.
-   Fiona from _Nostalgia (Red Entertainment)_ is a Barrier Maiden version of this. With some holy magic mixed in with her predominantly healing and support skills, she often gets paired off with Eddie while Pad and Melody have a more turbulent relationship.
-   _Octopath Traveler_ has Ophilia Clement, the Cleric. Gentle, pious and nurturing, her base class can only wield staves as it focuses on healing and support with a few Light 'em Up spells.
-   Yaobikuni from _Onmyōji (2016)_, who is a Yamato Nadeshiko Lady of War, is the master of buffs and has Psychic Powers. At least she has two attack skills, unlike poor Seimei who only has one.
    -   While we're at it, Seimei himself. He is very kind and level-headed, if not stoic and specializes in buffs, debuffs and defense. Oh, and he's quite the handsome man.
-   While Mercy of _Overwatch_ uses nanomachines rather than magic, she otherwise fits this trope, being a healer wearing white angelic armor, wielding a staff and is the most feminine of the female cast.
-   Amy Sage of _Phantasy Star II_ is soft-spoken and the best healer by far. Thea, Kara, Laya and Gwyn from _Phantasy Star III_ might also count, although they equip slicers and bows instead of traditional staves.
-   Fall-From-Grace in _Planescape: Torment_ has the femininity, the nurturing personality and is the only healer found in the game; she only has about one offensive spell and is firmly a support character. Of course, unlike most examples, she's literally a demon, albeit one who is winning the fight against her natural inclinations.
-   _Rise of the Third Power_: Reyna is a kindhearted priestess and the main healer of the party. While she's technically on the wrong side of the law as a Resistance member, she only does so because she wants to avert the bloodshed of a second Great War. She turns out to be a deconstruction, since her care for others causes her to resort to questionable actions, such as falsely leading Rowan into thinking he can romance her, if she thinks it's for the sake of world peace.
-   Alice Elliot in the first _Shadow Hearts_ game. She is gentle and demure, softening Yuri's harsher side. In combat, she uses a book and is the primary healer. She is also an exorcist to emphasize her holy powers.
-   _Star Ocean_:
    -   _Star Ocean_ has Millie Chliette, the daughter of her village's resident healer, and a master of symbology herself. She is the best healer and debuffer of the party, contested only by a secret character from remakes, and is flat-out the only buffer of the group. In fact, her spell list was almost completely taken from Mint from _Tales of Phantasia_ (see below), with the exception of three combat spells. Personality-wise, she has some tsundere tendencies, but acts on the sweet side most of the time.
    -   _Star Ocean: The Second Story_ has Rena Lanford. Her primary combat role is healing and support, but she is a somewhat effective fist fighter and is a borderline Red Mage.
    -   _Star Ocean: Till the End of Time_ has Sophia Esteed. Feminine, skilled at domestic tasks and somewhat naive, she is the most powerful healer. She does, however, have a wide array of offensive spells too.
    -   _Star Ocean: The Last Hope_ has Serah Jerand, who, if a bit airheaded, is the best healer in the game.
    -   _Star Ocean: Integrity and Faithlessness_ has Miki Sauvester. She is the party's strongest healer, but has nearly the same amount of offensive spells as the Lady of Black Magic, just different elements. Miki's late mother is also said to have been one; Miki learned how to heal to feel closer to her, since she can't really remember her parents otherwise.
    -   _Star Ocean: The Divine Force_ has Nina Deforges, a doctor-in-training and wielder of the rare power of iatrimancy, the healing magic. She devotes herself to creating a cure from a rare disease, of which her father died from. In gameplay she is a Mechanically Unusual Fighter, who locks on allies, rather than enemies, and heals and buffs them with Magic Music from her bell. She gains extra AP by supporting two or more allies at once, and can't use the Blindside mechanic. Her only method of self-defence is rather weak Area of Effect sound waves attacks.
-   Princess Peach in _Super Mario RPG_, though she wields umbrellas, frying pans, fans, and slapping gloves.
-   The female medic is _Symphony Of War_'s default healer unit, and the only one that's an exclusive healer besides Lysander. She can follow the exclusive healer tier to Hospitaller, Priestess, or Templar, or she can become a hybrid healer/fighter by becoming a Valkyrie.
-   _Tales Series_:
    -   Mint in _Tales of Phantasia_ is the page picture, and the purest example in the series, having no damaging spells or artes whatsoever (The healers in the other games all fall under Combat Medic). Late in the game, her fairly potent arsenal of heals, cures, stunning hammers and status enhancers is capped off by the power to temporarily _stop time_. Given, it doesn't work on bosses, but it's freaking sweet to have around.
    -   Annie Barrs from _Tales of Rebirth_ is a poilte young girl, who wants to become a doctor. She wields a staff, and almost all of her kit is geared to support allies or debuff enemies. She has only one attack spell, which is a weak Life Drain anyway, and even takes a support role in Combination Attacks. She also has several direct-heal spells... in a game where there is _no_ healing spells otherwise. She, however, deviates from the norm in that she hates Gajumas, because one of them killed her father. She grows out of it later on.
    -   Ange Serena from _Tales of Innocence_ is a priestess, famous for healing people for free with her supernatural abilities. She has the best healing artes in the party, including several party-wide ones, and her combat spells, while powerful, pale before magic of other party members. Her girliness, meanwhile, is underscored by her being in the party with two (later three) Tomboys. The unusual part comes from her melee moveset, which is based on the "Thief" class from _Radiant Mythology_ games, including a Video Game Stealing arte and a knife for a weapon.
    -   _Tales of Vesperia_: Played with in regards to Estelle. She checks all the boxes personality- and story-wise, being very kind, sweet and somewhat naive girl, who always goes out of her way to heal people with her powers. In gameplay, however, while she's still your main healer, she fights with Knightly Sword and Shield, and has very high defence, making it viable for her to fight on frontlines.
    -   _Tales of Graces_: Cheria is a kind and cheerful young girl, who often plays the role of the Team Mom, especially towards other girls (even though both of them are older than her). During the civil war she joins a relief organization to heal the wounded with her mysterious powers, for which she gets nicknamed "Battlefield Angel". That being said, she wields throwing knives and has several Light-based offensive spells, which are topped off by the Temporal Rift ability, so she's not defenceless at all.
    -   _Tales of Xillia_: Subverted with Leia. She's a nurse, all right, and she can heal, but she's a Hot-Blooded Genki Girl, and that staff of her? It's a Martial Arts Staff, and Leia is a versatile Jack of All Stats, proficient in aerial combos. In fact, she was trained in martial arts alongside Jude (who's, incidentally, your other healer).
-   Alarielle the Everqueen in _Total War: Warhammer II_. A benevolent and loving queen mother to the Elven race, complete with Fertile Feet, Light Is Good magic fueled by The Power of Love, and a Good Hurts Evil effect on her Dark Elf rivals. Finally, her Friend to All Living Things nature means she's the first Everqueen to lead armies into battle to defend all creation from the forces of Chaos.
-   _Trails Series_:
    -   Liberl arc has Kloe Rinz, whose orbment configuration is one long line that includes three blue slots, meaning a high magic pool with Heal It with Water arts. She also wields a rapier. Even her S-Crafts often involve healing.
    -   Crossbell arc has Elie MacDowell, whose Crafts and S-Crafts involve healing, and who has two green-locked slots on her orbment. The latter means that she most likely will have access to Healing Winds arts. Oh, and she fights with an orbal gun, but that's okay, because these guns are for the most part non-lethal, and can be used to fire healing bullets.
    -   Calvard arc features Agnès Claudel, a kind-hearted and somewhat naive young woman, who fights with an orbal staff and learns several healing Crafts.
-   _Utawarerumono_ has Eruru, who in the game serves as a healer during battles and in the anime adaptation still goes to battles and... apparently just watches without ever getting attacked really.
-   Cosette of _Valkyria Chronicles II_ fits the personality to a T, and in her primary roles has only healing and support abilities. You can unlock an offensive class for her, but this is non-canon in the story.
-   Shiho from _Valkyrie Profile_ is the closest to fit the archetype. When she joins your party, she knows a large variety of healing and defensive magic, but no attack spells.
-   Rosea in _Valkyrie Profile: Covenant of the Plume_ seems at first like a _very_ generic example of the type, contrasted with the sadomasochistic fire mage Lieselotte. However, each of them blames the other for the murder that got them both exiled. In the neutral path, Lieselotte kills Rosea, speaking afterwards of how it was a fitting punishment for a murderer and a hypocrite. In the evil path, Rosea kills Lieselotte, sacrificing her innocence and becoming a fitting companion for your Villain Protagonist. In the good path, they both kill each other—and only in that path do you find out that neither of them committed the original murder!
-   The Mirage Casters in _Valthirian Arc 1_ fit this trope quite well, as a class of female healers who seem to be incredibly sweet and kind (though their uniformly black hair does break the aesthetic a bit). The second game plays with this trope by replacing Mirage Casters with Medicae, who can be of any gender and temperament.
-   _Wild ARMs 4_ has Yulie, who learns healing and anti-undead skills, and is seen praying for people who died in the war. She can also summon Guardians as her Force Ability, and her basic (not affected by Ley Lines) summon is one that heals the party. She also hits the Mystical Waif trope, by virtue of being capable of these summons in the first place, as well as controlling (read: put back under control) ARMs that Jude has in his body.
-   MOMO from _Xenosaga_, who starts with a rod and in later games gets upgraded to an ether bow. Ultimately subverted in Episode III, where one of her two development paths turns her into an effective break attacker.

    Webcomics 

-   White Mage in _8-Bit Theater_, although her patience and nurturing tendencies are strained to the breaking point by Black Mage's antics.
-   Lumi from _Adventurers!_ parodies the typical relationship of White Magician Girl and Hero. However, she was also the last party member to be introduced, so she got far less screen time than most.
-   Su Arin of _I Log In Alone_ is a healer and can provide Devine protection.

    Web Original 

-   Unithien Greyrain/Earthaven of _The Gamer's Alliance_ is a sweet and caring priestess of Cardia who specializes in healing spells and only directly fights when it's absolutely necessary- that is, until she goes off the deep end courtesy of a combination of decades-spanning trauma, Vellamo's manipulation, and getting Drunk on the Dark Side off of her increasing arcane powers. After this, she becomes a much darker character on top of becoming more willing to use her magic to hurt and kill, moving away from this trope in both personality and combat role.
-   Codex, in the Game Within The Show of _The Guild_. She's very much the Team Mom and The Heart of the group, both on- and offline.
-   Coatl, in _Trinton Chronicles_, is very much this but without a weapon, instead she has a mystical necklace that produces shields of force and protects her and allies.
-   _AFK_: Serena fits into this mode, as she's traditionally effeminate, a healer, in a support role, carries a staff, and always caring toward others.

    Web Videos 

-   Discussed in _Vision of Escaflowne Abridged._ It's noted that such series make this one of only two roles women get to play. Millerna is stuck with being this, as Hitomi is the prophet.
    
    **Moleman:** We don't have a doctor on board. Princess Millerna, _you'll_ have to save him.
    
    **Millerna:** What? Why me? I don't have any medical training. One of those guys do it!
    
    **Moleman:** Nope, it has to be you.
    

___