And the bidding war for that script was bananas!

**Clone of Benjamin Franklin:** Why do you have your barber on emergency speed dial?  
**Dr. McNinja:** I don't know? Because life is _**crazy?!**_

Guess what? Remember last week when the Devil possessed our resident alien when we killed that vampire? Well, this week we've got time traveling wizards on our tail! Good thing we acquired those Psychic Powers from that black monolith two weeks ago, eh?

…basically, every concept or creature that was ever touched upon in popular culture is not only real, but has a vested interest in the main characters. However, despite the rampant weirdness, everything superficially _appears_ to be identical to the present day.

Distinguished from comic book settings in that in comics, the unusual is used as a plot device ("This guy comes from space, and that's why he has powers!"), whereas World Of Weirdness uses it as a plot enabler ("This guy went to space on his vacation, and all he got was this stupid T-shirt!").

Often comes hand-in-hand with the Law of Conservation of Normality. Often develops a complex and nuanced Crossover Cosmology. Use of this in a serious manner with separate explanations of how all of the weirdness came to be turns it into a Fantasy Kitchen Sink. Magic A Is Magic A can generally be assumed to be completely averted. If the weirdness has a detective/thriller angle to it, may also overlap with World of Mysteries.

This trope was originally named "Planet Eris" after the goddess of Chaos in _Principia Discordia_, the prime text of the Discordian religion. Also relates to the original Ancient Greek mythology version of Eris as the goddess of discord, strife and quarrels. Look up the _The Iliad_ (especially the Judgement of Paris scene) for one of her most famous roles therein, you know the Original Snub and 'For the Fairest' and the Golden Apple Corps. Not to be confused with Eros, god of sexual love and beauty, or Ares, god of war, or Chaos/Khaos/χάος, who was the void before the creation of gods and earth. Yeah, Greek Myth was involved. Suffice to say Eris is the embodiment of the modern term chaos, discord and the fun stuff.

See also Urban Fantasy for the genre use of this trope.

This is the most common setting for the Flat-Earth Atheist.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   _The 100 Girlfriends Who Really, Really, Really, Really, Really Love You_: The world around the characters in this Gag Series is implied to be this., whether it be Kusuri's drugs or anything the Serious Group produces.
-   _JoJo's Bizarre Adventure_ casually features everything from vampires, Cyborgs and aliens to Psychic Powers, intelligent orangutans and man-headed dogs without much - if any - explanation or fanfare. It eventually gets to the point where being attacked by enemy Stand Users is not only accepted as normal by the characters, it's downright expected.
-   _Durarara!!_ can be like this at times; while there is a little surprise at the existence of the headless motorcyclist Celty, Shizuo's superhuman strength is considered, at worst, an interesting character quirk. Simon's almost equal strength isn't even that.
-   _Hetalia: Axis Powers_: Besides the Anthropomorphic Personifications of countries walking around, you have aliens, mythical creatures visible only to certain countries, and other sorts of weirdness. And yet life goes on as normal for most of the human race.
-   _Love Hina_ definitely falls into this, as characters using robots, magic, etc. is hardly noticable. Even when Keitaro's ability to withstand severe physical abuse is revealed to be some form of nigh-indestructability, it's not given much more than a shrug; people generally are just mildly impressed by it.
    -   This does not hold for _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_, the semi-sequel set in the same universe, where a masquerade is clearly shown to be upheld.
-   _Cromartie High School_ has, among its student body, a robot, a gorilla, and an extremely buff character who may or may not be Freddie Mercury. The anime even adds things like spaceships flying in the background and a character's mohawk apparently being prehensile.
-   The _Doraemon_ movies has the main cast encountering dinosaurs, giant robots, aliens, evolved animals, wizards, dragons, merpeople, etc. The whole series, for a start, has a robotic cat from the future as the main character.
-   The original run of _Dragon Ball_ was this, albeit set in a fantasy universe. Beyond walking, talking Funny Animals, magic and shape-shifting was considered usual. Even in _Dragon Ball Z_, this was present (although less obvious).
    -   This was a hold-over from Toriyama's previous series, _Doctor Slump_.
-   Two words. _One Piece_. Here's a meta hint: Eiichiro Oda once apprenticed under Akira Toriyama. Let's see, humans, mermaids, fishmen, and giants (who are all able to interbreed). A World Government like this one that hasn't already destroyed the world. Circular rainbows, a race of alien angels with weird hair who say "Heso", fruit that lets people stretch like rubber or shoot magma, an unofficial government for pirates, dinosaurs hunted for food... Is it any wonder that the singing skeleton with an afro rarely gets lampshaded anymore?
-   _Space Patrol Luluco_ runs on it. Between the local police station fighting space-crimes, galactic pirates, middle schoolers making apps that can steal anything, every planet having an equivalent Ogikubo, and _all of Studio TRIGGER's works existing in the same universe_, Luluco finds it pretty hard to live a normal life.

    Comic Books 

-   _Scott Pilgrim_ is a perfect example of this trope at its finest. With little more than a Hand Wave, the series casually includes epic battle scenes, mystical powers, save points, and ninjas. A good example of how the series treats fantastical elements is that finding out someone is psychic is generally no more surprising than finding out that they're vegan<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> : it's unusual, but in no way fantastic.
    -   The series manages to be this and Magic Realism at the same time interestingly enough. Beyond the video game logic, it's a story about overcoming your negative qualities and owning up to your mistakes.
-   The premise of _Fables_. Every single character from history and fiction that the author won't be sued for using is fair game as a character.
    -   The same goes for spin-off series _Jack of Fables_.
-   Alan Moore's _The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen_ is this, especially if you read the text chapters and not just the comics. Not surprising, since the main premise of the books is that all written fiction is true.
-   The tie-in comics for _Who Framed Roger Rabbit_ go into some detail about what it's like to live in a town where all the inhabitants are cartoon characters. It's... chaotic, verging on a World Gone Mad (the first issue involves a safe falling from nowhere, a pair of pants that talks like a gangster, and evil flying pizzas that are ultimately defeated by a pack of dogs).
-   Played for Laughs in _Sam & Max: Freelance Police_, which has aliens, psychics, zombies, wizards, gangsters, talking toys, ghosts, Santa Claus, elves, roadside Americana, dinosaurs, mole people, time travel, Satan and hell, vampires, sapient 80s computers, talking paintings... The surprisingly epic game _Sam & Max: The Devil's Playhouse_ is a story about a space gorilla attempting to steal the psychic brain of the President of the US, who is also a murderous rabbit creature and the second main character, while battling a dark wizard who wants the brain to unsummon Yog Soggoth, and a Reality Warper Pharaoh.
-   _King City_ has, among other things, Sasquatch, ninjas, Green Skinned Space Babes aplenty, psychics, gangsters, an ancient Mayan corn cult, various monsters, an Eldritch Abomination, and a bunch of specially trained warriors whose main weapons are their pet cats.
-   In _Giraffes On Horseback Salad_, Earth becomes one of these when the Surrealist Woman falls in love with Jimmy and her Reality Warper powers are amplified — the streets of Paris all go in one direction, Venice has been drained and floats twenty feet off the ground, bridges of slime fill the city and lead to roads in the air, and more.

    Comic Strips 

-   In its early years, _Dilbert_ had strips involving dinosaurs, aliens, trolls, people stowing away inside Dilbert's torso, and an arc where Dilbert is killed by Mother Nature and is brought Back from the Dead with a homemade cloning device. There's much less of that stuff now, though it's not completely diminished, what with consultants who dig into your flesh just to get at your wallet, the ruler of Heck (titled "Prince of Insufficient Light") showing up every now and again, talking animals who function as Corrupt Corporate Executives and Indians apparently being taught telekinesis in college.

    Fan Works 

-   _Swing123 and garfieldodie's Calvinverse_ has aliens, all sorts of technology, mad scientists...
-   Dark World in _Pony POV Series_ is this, given Discord has ruled for a thousand years. Sea Ponies based off various aqautic species live in an ocean floating high about the planet, Pegasi and Griffins are now one species, as are Zebras and Unicorns, the night day cycle changes completely randomly, it actually raining _water_ is considered odd, Changelings are now common place freedom fighters, and an alien invasion happened five hundred years ago. Apple Computer's response to his children saving a pony from a Pony Eating Rock is basically to say Oh, No... Not Again! and invite said pony to dinner. This even continues after the world is saved and it becomes less weird because a good chunk of the world's populace came Back from the Dead thanks to Rarity becoming Queen Libra and Sky Ocean still exists.
-   _Flashpoint 2: Advent Solaris_, this is basically how all of the DC characters from the DCAMU react to seeing the anthro Sonic characters for the first time, and it's questionable if they ever truly get used to it or not.
-   _Kasumis Epic Quest_. The first chapter alone gives us a bag that literally holds everything, an evil clan of sentient books who kill people by shoving pictures of basilisks in their faces, Creepers, the Killer Rabbit and the Holy Handgrenade, and carpenter ponies. The world isn't _quite_ bizarre enough to be considered a World of Chaos, but it is still a very, very silly place.
-   _The PreDespair Kids_ and _Ask The New Hope's Peak_ take the setting of _Danganronpa_, already a pretty bizarre series on its own, and manage to make it even _crazier._

    Films — Live-Action 

-   _Forbidden Zone_ mostly takes place in the eponymous Fifth Dimension, which can be summarized by saying its leader, Fausto the Midget King, is planning on conquering the galaxy with an army of zombie babies as soon as he can get his teenage lover away from his wife's evil anthropomorphic frog. The "real world" is a little better, aside from the giant mouth in the Hercules family's basement and Squeezit's ability to talk to chickens whenever his mom's "clients" beat him up.
-   This is literally the plot of _The Matrix_ though one would think at least one civilian would notice other people turning into Agents at some point.
-   _Men in Black_ manages to be this in spite of The Masquerade. It implies the real world is like this, we just don't know about it because a) the MIB organization is actively hiding the truth from the general public and b) whenever someone _does_ spill the beans, nobody believes them anyway. At one point K goes to get leads from the "hot sheets", which turn out to be tabloids like _National Enquirer_ and _Weekly World News_. He tells the incredulous J, "Finest investigative reporting on the planet. Oh, you can read the _New York Times_ if you _want_ to; sometimes they get lucky."
-   In _Looper_, time travel is at least treated as an odd sort of thing from the future. The fact that a percentage of the population is telekinetic, however, gets barely any fanfare.

    Literature 

-   _Alice's Adventures in Wonderland_: With a name like "Wonderland", what else can you expect?
-   Pretty much every Speculative Fiction plot, setting and mechanics you can imagine exists within the world of _Constance Verity_. Time travel, space travel, barbarians, lost civilizations, aliens, demons, mole men, magic, fairies, ghosts, wormholes, eldritch horrors from beyond; you name it, it exists here.
-   _Emperor Mollusk versus The Sinister Brain_: Every planet in the Earth's solar system is populated with space-faring alien life who are now walking on Earth just like anyone else. Atlantis, Mole Men and Bigfoot nations share the Earth with humans, or "Terrans" as they're called, and all sorts of interplanetary or interdimensional strangeness happens on an almost daily basis. After retiring from conquering, Mollusk's job as Earth's Emperor is mainly him using his impressive tech and intellect to fight off anything that threatens it.
-   One of the earliest examples: Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson's _Illuminatus!_ trilogy was deliberately written to be the World of Weirdness of conspiracy theories.
-   Robert Rankin has built a highly successful writing career on this trope.
-   Simon Green's _Nightside_ novels surely qualify, as they feature pop-culture figures like "the Traveling Doctor" operating side by side with mythological gods and extradimensional entities. One might walk into any Nightside pub and find a cyborg, a mummy, and a gnome in a Nazi uniform knocking back shots at the bar, none of which would strike the pub's regulars as odd.
-   _The Gone-Away World_ by Nick Harkaway has decaying reality as the setting due to a super weapon gone awry.
-   A lighthearted example is explored in the Dr. Seuss children's book _Wacky Wednesday_. Just like the title implies, the protagonist wakes up on a Wednesday to find everything has gone...wacky. Things escalate from a palm tree growing from the toilet and shoes stuck to the walls and ceiling, to a completely surreal world where airplanes fly backwards, pigs run amok on chicken legs (or levitate without legs), there are two suns or a green sun, and the entire town is full of mothers strolling their babies.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _Look Around You_ has ghosts, time travel, animals capable of building computers, resurrection, a disease that turns people into piles of rocks while granting them the ability to fly, and a thousand other bizarre things...all treated as perfectly normal.
-   _True Blood_ subverts this; it starts out establishing vampires as having integrated into society and considered an oppressed minority and civil rights group. Other creatures, however—werewolves, shapeshifters, telepaths—are treated as strange and keep up a masquerade.
-   _Round the Twist_: the first two series were mostly focused on ghosts with a few other strange things. In the later seasons, all bets were off, with books of Viking magical poetry, living shadows, fish that make your penis function like a propeller, gelato machines in human form that extrude the stuff from their noses, magical kiss-granting lip balm, time travel radios, a "Freaky Friday" Flip resulting from a badly tuned VR machine, dragons, ghostly dogs that curse you to end every sentence with "without my pants", and even an episode where two characters had their brains sucked out of their heads and shot out the window, necessitating said brains to bounce across town to regain their bodies.
-   _30 Rock_ definitely got weirder over time- by the final season, there were plenty of weird things referenced, like Pennsylvania's voting machines somehow gaining sentience (and being strongly in favor of gay marriage), to Leap Day being an actual holiday, and that's not even taking into account the antics at _TGS_ itself- and of course, Kenneth apparently being immortal.
-   Wellsville in _The Adventures of Pete & Pete_. From a conspiracy of ice-cream vendors to Artie, the World's Strongest Man, to an amazingly talented and successful underwear inspector and a legendary striped bass and cursed bowling ball, all sorts of crazy things happen in this town that nobody else really seems to notice.
-   The bizarre, the inexplicable, and the zany are a constant background presence on _Odd Squad_, yet people just call in the Odd Squad agents to clean up the mess and then get on with their daily lives. Even the agents won't bother to investigate _why_ a particular odd event occurred, unless there's a pattern of serial oddness that hints an actual villain is to blame.

    Magazines 

-   The comics in _Top Secret_ seem to take place in a world made from all the video game settings mushed together, thus allowing the heroes to go on wacky hijinx with Indiana Jones or having their office attacked by the Death Star.
-   The _Fortean Times_ is predicated on this trope. Halfway between complete credulity of the New Age sort and militant scepticism of the James Randi variety, FT gathers in and recounts strange and anomalous events from around the world, and discusses their validity or otherwise in a very serious and readable way.

    Memes 

-   The state of Florida has garnered a reputation of being an alligator-infested epicenter for the strangest stories from chaotic locals. Many a publication will end up viral if the title is ever adorned with a "Florida Man". This is due to its transparency regarding information pertaining to different cases, which lets papers and reporters publish the strangest and most absurd happenings that other states would normally downplay in their headlines. Strange wording for headlines aside, the fact that the state is home to Miami and is near The Bermuda Triangle only help to sell its infamy.
-   Ohio was memed as this through a good chunk of 2022, being portrayed as a world where eldritch monsters, cryptids, strange phenomena, and more, all exist and are treated as part of everyday life by the equally weird locals.

    Music 

-   Gorillaz play to this. It can be excused in their music videos, but when you find in their backstories that they attended Xavier's School for Gifted Children, are part of a government Super Soldier program that specializes in creating brilliant musicians, were suspended from school due to demon possession, or have scaly green skin due to tanning, this trope comes into play.

    Podcasts 

-   The world of _The Hidden Almanac_, an impression conveyed not only by the events Reverend Mord describes, but implicitly by the matter-of-fact way in which he describes them. An account of an incident in which a man spontaneously transformed into a cloud of butterflies features the phrase "Spontaneous butterfly explosions were nearly unknown at that time". Within that world, the oft-mentioned Echo Harbor is a city of weirdos where strange happenings are so much more common that nothing that happens there is a surprise. No, not even shutting out the Fathers with a wall made of live dolphins that whistle hostile sonnets. The only event ever mentioned to terrify its citizens is that time a little old lady came through striking up conversation and being unperturbed by the clouds performing unspeakable rites on each other.
    
    **Mord:** "You're so lucky to live in this lovely city," she is reported to have said. "One sees so much evil in small towns."
    
-   The town of _Welcome to Night Vale_. Hooded figures who lurk in the dog park, spontaneous chronal wormholes, angels no one is allowed to acknowledge, a mind controlling cloud that glows and drops dead animals, bloodstone circles, the Brownstone Spire, a shape no one speaks about or acknowledges, deadly wheat and wheat byproducts, floating cats, Vague Yet Menacing Government Agents, librarians, and more all can be found within its borders. Of course, finding them can be difficult given that many of these anomalies are either covered up, denied, or viewed as normal.
    -   Amusingly, one two-part episode has an Only Sane Man (or as close as the podcast gets) conspiracy theorist write in to two separate radio stations (the titular Night Vale Radio and the corresponding station in Desert Bluffs) claiming that the government has engineered a sandstorm that is approaching the two towns. Cecil, the host of NVR, is enraged that the writer would waste his time with something _so incredibly obvious_, while Kevin, the host of Desert Bluff's radio, agrees with his assessment, in that he thinks that the sandstorm is poorly and inefficiently implemented, and that a private corporation could control the weather much more efficiently and effectively.

    Tabletop Games 

-   Both the _Old World of Darkness_ and the _New World of Darkness_. Vlad Tepes invented vampirical Scientology (which actually _works_), Frankenstein's Monster is the father of a race of other Frankensteinian monsters, evil aliens infect the souls of entire vampire clans, and five tons of other stuff.
    -   The fanmade _World of Darkness_ gameline _Genius: The Transgression_ only continues the above trend.
-   Steve Jackson Games' _GURPS Illuminati University_ gives every appearance of being created specifically to be the setting for pretty much any webcomic you care to name. The Phil Foglio art doesn't hurt that at all...
    -   _GURPS Illuminati_ also has this quality, but less light-hearted.
-   _Pandemonium: Adventures in Tabloid World_ is a comedy RPG which takes place in a world where all the stuff you read in "weird but true" tabloids like the _Weekly World News_ (reincarnation, Fortean phenomena, psychic powers, aliens, and so on) really is true.
-   Collectible trading card game _Magic: The Gathering_ lives this trope. The game universe encompasses mermaids, vampires, dragons, goblins, wizards, zombies, golems, killer robots, trans-dimensional Eldritch horrors, and several special monster types specific to the game universe besides. A typical game in Commander format might see you getting attacked by all of the above in one charge.
-   _Over the Edge_ runs on this trope - the fictional island of Al Amarja is overrun with psychics, spies, alien infiltrators, cultists, artists, and other weirdness. (The game helpfully points out that if the players leave Al Amarja, you need to decide if the island is a nexus for weirdness, or if the whole world is this strange, and they just _never noticed before_.)

    Video Games 

-   _Earthworm Jim_: Bosses include a bungee-jumping booger man, Professor Monkey-for-a-Head, fire-breathing snowmen, a fire-breathing steak, and Queen Bloated-Festering-Pus-Filled-Malformed-Slug-for-a-Butt.
-   _Second Life_ **is** this. Don't be fooled by the apparent pretenses at realism at the starting area. Justified due to most of the content being made by other users.
-   The world of _Katamari Damacy_, nonstop. Massive spirits, demons, monsters, and Power Ranger expys wandering around; floating cities and giant mushrooms; and of course, the royal family itself.
-   In _City of Heroes_, Paragon City is a pretty weird place.
    -   The world is actually rather internally consistent, although everything weird _ever_ happens to be concentrated in the two faction cities. However, a lack of available lore leads to many players getting creative. This applies to any Superhero game, of course. Not many people want to conform to preset concepts and origins.
-   _Heroes of the Storm_ takes place within "The Nexus," a conflux of time and space where heroes and worlds clash,<sup>*&nbsp;</sup>  this nexus draws in characters and realms from all over Blizzard Entertainment's franchises to do endless MOBA — Hero Brawler! — battle, and given that those franchises take place in _wildly_ different universes with their own Magic A Is Magic A, Technology Levels, etc, the Nexus invariably becomes a World Of Weirdness where lasers are shot from sun-powered obelisks right next to Steampunk turrets, necromancy raises undead right next to a tank, and there's a trio of vikings running around with Medium Awareness of their situation.
-   _Touhou Project_: in the windows games: Vampires, Ghosts and a reality warper, Magitek moon people and bunny girls, rival Goddesses set up shop down the street, World domination/destruction by nuclear-powered Hell Crow, and UFOs, all while supplemental materials and Fan Fic portray liberal Schizo Tech, especially at the hands of the kappa and tengu, or whenever "technology becomes mythical" enough for it to disappear into Gensokyo. While they may fight for no reason at first, the various monsters or spacemen make up, and drink tea with all the other freaks afterwards.
-   _The Sims_ games are basically set on a World of Weirdness. There's the obvious stuff, like the alien abductions, vampires, werewolves, and so forth; and then there are the subtler examples found in the buyable objects' descriptions, like the fact that there's apparently a government rehabilitation program in which actual bears make teddy bears.
-   The _Shin Megami Tensei_ games are almost certainly set on World Of Weirdness. Oh sure, it looks like _Persona_ is set on Earth until you remember that the SEBEC Group built a machine that rewrites reality based on the whims of a high school girl in a coma.
    -   In _Shin Megami Tensei I_, Stephen Hawking created the Demon Summoning Program. In the sequel, he's still providing updates.
    -   _Shin Megami Tensei_ is really a Multiverse of Weirdness, as most games take place in alternate Earths that each undergo their own little apocalypses and then have to deal with the aftermath. The _Persona_ subseries is the least applicable to this trope with hints that The Masquerade is enforced by a mix of government and corporate cover-ups and willful disbelief. However, _Persona_ and _Persona 2_' were more willing to do things that couldn't just be covered up or written off as mass hysteria, and _everyone_ seemed to already know when someone else might, say, be a demon summoner. _Persona 3_ and _Persona 4_ were more bent on preserving The Masquerade, disqualifying them from this trope.
-   In _Minecraft_, common gameplay elements include zombies and skeletons, giant spiders, (sl)endermen, magic, ancient ruins, and interdimensional travel.
-   Ah, _Punch-Out!!_. A boxing game that includes, among others, a German who developed PTSD from being beaten by his child students, an Indian who utilizes illusionary powers, a Russian who becomes intoxicated via soda, an African-American who can level a building with his bare hands, and, most importantly, a 5'7" kid from the Bronx who weighs 100 pounds and can _beat all of them one-on-one using only fisticuffs_.
-   _Gears of War_: Planet Sera is relatively normal on the surface. Sure, they've got some pretty advanced tech such as Do-Anything Robots and Kill Sats even though all their buildings look pretty old-fashioned, but that's just because most of the money gets pumped into the military. When you go underground however, you start finding the weird shit, like an entire race of Bee People, a **GIANT WORM!**, and a miracle fuel that is actually a parasitic organism.
-   _Team Fortress 2_ seemed like a simple cartoony gorefest... at first. But in recent years, the continuity was expanded. Now, the canon of the game includes ghosts, magicians, Time Travel, laser guns from other dimensions, transformative elements that give people incredible strength, heightened intelligence and superb mustaches (yes, even the women), giant floating eyeball monsters that open portals to the Underworld, and quite possibly, aliens...
-   The _Mother_ series. In any given game you can expect to find some combination of psychic powers, UFOs, cybernetic and/or tentacled aliens, cultists/fanatics, Everything Trying to Kill You, hippies, jazz clubs, improbable animals and plants (obviously trying to kill you), ancient civilizations, alien abductions, alternate realities, Mushroom Samba, abandoned children, teleportation, talking monkeys, breaking the fourth wall, levitation, prophecy, time travel, a quest for music, bottle rockets, clueless adults, a needlessly detailed system of food and condiments, and zombies. Maybe your quest starts because a bee hitched a ride to your time on a meteorite just to share a prophecy with you, maybe it starts because a lamp and a doll come to life and try killing your sister and your dad thinks your grandfather's abduction by aliens is probably involved. It's that kind of game.
-   Only in a series like _WarioWare_ can you find mad scientists, anthropomorphic animals, kung fu masters, ninjas, witches, aliens, improbably young retro gamers, high schoolers with a load of jobs, a family of disco dancers and Wario in a single place. And that's just the main characters!
    -   The closely-related _Rhythm Heaven_ series fares about the same. Vegetables with facial hair and faces, raps about snacks, monkeys, army birds, dumpling-inhaling monks, monkeys, badminton between a dog and cat piloting planes, whatever Donk-Donk is supposed to be, monkeys, sentient ground shooting fruit into basketball hoops, martians who love pork rice bowls, and a few more monkeys for good measure... basically the only thing that separates the two series is that absolutely everything in Rhythm Heaven is done to the beat of catchy music. And monkeys.
-   _LEGO Dimensions_: According to Wyldstyle, the Land of Oz manages to make Cloud Cuckoo Land seem normal.
-   The _Professor Layton_ series ostensibly takes place in the "real" England—which, in this reality, contains Ridiculously Human Robots, hallucinogenic gases that can manifest entire towns, ancient civilizations who had technology beyond anything contemporary humanity possesses, a boy who Speaks Fluent Animal, giant sea monsters, working time travel, and a villain whose skill in Latex Perfection allows him to not only change his appearance, but his entire size and physique. And that's ignoring the central gimmick of the series: everyone—yes, _everyone_—is absolutely obsessed with puzzles. No matter who you talk to, they'll have a brainteaser or riddle for you to solve, even when they're investigating murders and kidnappings. Only the first game in the series bothered to Hand Wave this trope, as it's revealed that the Ridiculously Human Robots mentioned above were built by a puzzle-loving man as a Secret Test of Character to determine who would be a good choice to adopt his ward; after that, the developers simply added it to the endless list of quirks in Layton's world.

    Webcomics 

-   _AntiBunny_: Magic exists. A superhero battled an army of evil robots, and ordinary life goes on. Pooky writes for a Weekly World News type rag, and every bit of it is true. That's not even getting into what goes on in haunted junction.
-   _Templar Arizona_ is set in a largely realistic but subtly different world, where there are, among other things, fast-food restaurants serving fried guinea pig, and one of the largest immigrant factions of the eponymous city is composed of people who are both ethnically and culturally _Ancient Egyptian_. There's also a huge black man named Scipio who is a professional bodyguard and who dresses pretty much like a Roman gladiator, and no one who meets him finds anything even slightly remarkable about this.
-   _Ctrl+Alt+Del_: In the beginning, the comic had many appearances of ninjas, an ogre, random arrows, and one ''insistence" where Ethan kills a person before he can say all your base are belong to us. Now, the only "supernatural" things in the comic would have to be Zeke, Ted, Chef Brian, and any comic poking fun at a game, movie, etc.
-   _Sluggy Freelance_ When Satan was summoned into Riff's computer in the very first series of strips, that was more _normal_ than what would be the average. Not only are alternate universes, demons, aliens and Time Travel present and accounted for, but also aliens _from_ alternate universes, demons from the far future and every other mind-wrenching combination you can imagine. Sometimes they fight each other.
    
    **Torg:** With my secretary encased in a cocoon, I can't get a lot done.  
    **Riff:** And I don't have to worry about saving the world from an alien invasion for now.  
    **Zoë:** And with the prophesy fulfilled, the comets won't destroy the Earth for weeks.  
    **Torg, Riff, and Zoë:** IT'S SUMMER VACATION TIME!  
    **Torg and Riff:** _...Comets?_  
    **Zoë:** School is out and the office is closed, but that just sounded too dull compared to you guys. You really know how to make a girl sound boring.
    
-   _Questionable Content_ features a downplayed version of this combined with more advanced technology. The result is flying Roomba babies. Other things include a character being born on a Space Station, and pretty much raised by robots. Also, arbitrary action movie scenes just happen.
-   _Eerie Cuties_: Whether it's simply a fact of life at Charybdis Heights, or if it's limited to Nina and her friends, one thing is clear: weird things happen. A lot.
-   _El Goonish Shive_ has _tons_ of this. The "new readers" page actually contains a warning that the comic "often ignores the laws of Physics".
    -   The "EGS Mayhem" forum is worse. As in, if the Weirdness Index of _El Goonish Shive_ is x, then the Weirdness Index of EGS Mayhem is x^x, at least. There's a reason the forum tagline is _It means "The Goonish Shive crippling of eye or limb"._
    -   As the comic developed, things became a little more internally consistent, although still pretty random.
-   _Dresden Codak_ has more than a few instances of this. Niels Bohr is feline, unobserved and immortal. The Toltec underworld exists, Heaven exists (though not the type of heaven one might expect). The Egyptian pantheon exists, and so do robots, time travellers, "Nephilim", Reverse Moses and Aqua-Pharaoh, and superheroes. And that's just the beginning of it. The culture is also kind of odd, with a Historical Preenactment Society dedicated to doing future conflicts such as the Second Moon War, and an entire city where you legally have to register your crimes and there's an entire department dedicated to opposing the other departments.
    -   And yet the fantasy and surrealist elements coexist alongside some rather solid, hard-SF science. As well as "dark science", whatever that actually means.
-   In _The Adventures of Dr. McNinja_, Dr. McNinja lives in an alternate-universe Cumberland, Maryland, in which vampires run the Red Cross, pirates still sail the seas and skies, and the mayor installed a working zombie defense system which got used. What's particularly funny is that no one takes the weirdness for granted.
    -   No one, that is, except for King Radical, who thinks there isn't nearly enough of it, and hopes to pull beings from his home dimension, the Radical Lands, into Doc's world. (NB: This is because his own world was poisoned by an evil unicorn overlord that later turns into a mind-controlling motorcycle.)
        -   It's later revealed that the reason the world is so strange is because of a leaking dimensional rift; it's right between the Radical Lands and another similar yet exceptionally more boring dimension.
-   _Bob and George_ is a notable example of this trope in action. It has everything including alternate dimensions, time travel and lots of breaking the fourth wall. Seemingly everyone in that comic seems to be in on the joke, though. If anything, it's almost _too_ goofy.
-   _Scary Go Round_ is full of goblins, devil bears, talking flying bells, scheming Wendigos, Satan, Weird Science of many kinds, numerous bizarre conspiracies and a fish-man in self-denial.
-   _Candi_ is a mild example. It's mostly about the lives of ordinary college students, but every now and then some weirdness pops up. It seems to be slowly increasing in frequency, too - first there was just the levitating ferret, then the squirrel mafia shows up...
-   _The Inexplicable Adventures of Bob!_ has this, with the caveat that all the insanity tends to gravitate around one guy.
-   _Emergency Exit_ starts off completely normal (aside from the inexplicable insanity of Eddie), but soon drops into World of Weirdness with the introduction of such things as Karl's apartment's alternate-reality portal, the talking cat Fred, witchcraft, curses, and shapeshifting villains competing in a quest to grab the pieces of some shattered artifact... _Parallel Dementia_, which EE crossed over with a couple times, starts looking normal by comparison, and that's a post-apocalyptic dark urban fantasy where nightmares and demons run rampant.
    -   All of which serves to make the things Eddie says make a lot more sense...
-   The entire premise of _Gunnerkrigg Court_ is the way in which the main character, Antimony, is completely unsurprised by any of the strange, mystical goings on at the titular boarding school.
    -   Not exactly that surprising, since when she lived in a hospital, before she came to the Court, Antimony was on first name terms with several psychopomps.
-   _Narbonic_ (and presumably its Spiritual Successor _Skin Horse_) takes place in a world where mad science in particular is pretty rampant. The existence of demons, Hell, and ghosts is confirmed, and aliens have been mentioned in throwaway. Human magic, as well as Earthly supernatural creatures, hasn't been shown yet, but mad science can replicate those pretty well (a newly-mad mad scientist has an almost magical field of entropic chaos around them, and _Skin Horse_ feature science-created werewolves complete with infectiousness and regeneration) in one storyline.
-   _Gemini Journey_ takes place in a quirky contemporary melting pot of different mythological and fantasy themes.
-   _MegaTokyo_: Kaiju, Ninja, Zombie Apocalypse, Humongous Mecha, Magical Girls, etc. Nobody seems surprised, though — it's Tokyo. Parts of it are Largo's imagination, though.
    -   It gets more complicated. Word of God says that the comic is about different perceptions of reality, much like a larger-scale version of the Hobbes conundrum. And nobody's reality is called "true" so far. So the girls may be parts of Piro's imagination and Largo may be entirely right.
        -   Considering how strongly perceptions play into the comic, don't be surprised if the determinator of which reality is "correct" in the end is the _audience_.
        -   What Piro sees is true for Piro. What Largo sees is true for Largo. Their realities (among many others) occupy the same space, but are effectively separate. They appear to represent the extreme ends of the spectrum, with most of the other characters sitting somewhere in between. In fact, Piro and Largo appear to be the _only_ characters in the comic who have no perception of one another's reality, with everyone else having at least some degree of crossover.
-   _Nukees_ is careful to paint its protagonist's encounters with the Egyptian Gods as delusions (or at least plausibly deniable)... but the killer A.I./giant robot ant/velociraptor is _perfectly normal_.
-   _Khatru_ has Weird Science, Functional Magic, super-powered college students, and more.
-   _Jayden and Crusader_ often has chaotic things occurring, ranging from an attack by a slime monster in the early pages, to time travel on a steam powered hover-motor-cycle in the middle to battling an enraged android currently.
-   The world of _The Dragon Doctors_ is pretty much this; it's 2000 years in our future, after the world has been blown up four times, the fourth of which fused it with several other worlds. Most sociological and technological conventions _resemble_ those of modern-day society, but magic is ever-present and allows people to do all sorts of interesting things. The Docs are just as likely to treat pinkeye one day and face a killer sentient cancer another, or turn a gorgon into a human at her request. As their leader says, "We don't live in a world where nothing is real. We live in a world where _everything_ is real... though not all at once."
-   Sam in _Sam & Fuzzy_ is often bewildered by strangeness and seems to be a magnet for it. Demon-possessed refrigerators, ninja mafia, elaborate underground cities — all real, and all highly important to the plot.
-   While everyday life mostly stays normal in _The Fan_, many supernatural concepts are mentioned in casual conversation. People with psychic powers or magical abilities (the latter are referred to as Gifted) are no different from the rest of humanity. In fact, it would seem that humans are sharing the planet with other sentient creatures as well. Murke the shape-shifting imp is treated no differently than a human who's a master of disguises would be.
-   _A Girl and Her Fed_: The central cast consists of a woman who can see ghosts, a cyborg federal agent, the ghost of Benjamin Franklin, and a genetically engineered neocon koala super-genius. _Then_ things get a little weird.

-   Tycho and Gabe of _Penny Arcade_ routinely encounter supernatural events, like zombie outbreaks, or even sentient robotic fruit fuckers, without it surprising them the least. It's pretty unclear how crazy their world really is, since half the comics happen in video game worlds.
-   _Flaky Pastry_ in most ways bears a superficial resemblance to the normal world, but it started out with goblins and dragons and has been getting crazier ever since.
-   _Axe Cop_: Between hordes of dinosaurs, absurd superheroes, zombies, super-powered babies, ninjas, exploding telephones, sidekicks turned dinosaur turned avocado turned unicorn turned ghost turned ghostly dinosaur, casual space travel, robots and out-of-the-blue transformations, all Serial Escalation, and resident badass Axe Cop himself, the comic takes this trope to the next level.
-   _Voodoo Walrus_ has a long history of baby powered dommcano based publishing houses, sentient cacti instigating catsplosions, and day trips to future dystopias.

-   The entire stable of comics loosely tied into the _Walkyverse_ (including, but not limited to, _Questionable Content_, _Diesel Sweeties_, _Girls with Slingshots_, _Something\*Positive_, _Scary Go Round_, and a number of others) includes extensive use of artificial intelligence, boneless cats, ghosts, convenient space travel, and butts disease.
-   The world shared by _Adventure Dennis_ and _Hover Head_ qualifies, given that it includes superheroes, demons, ghosts, yetis, living snowmen, aliens, wizards, and more.
-   Justified in _minus._, where everything imaginable exists, because the main character is omnipotent.
-   _Sequential Art_ seems to have a world that's _mostly_ just normal, boring human stuff, with handfuls of animal-people mixed in... it's just that every weird government experiment to clone ADHD-ridden Genius Ditz squirrel-girls, every Alien Invasion, and every 1980s sci-fi plot come true all wind up somehow involving a certain down-on-his-luck graphic designer and his housemates. Oh, and apparently, birds can talk and carry grudges, though whether this reduces their airspeed velocity remains unexplored.
-   Half of the time, _UG Madness_ will have Ty and Dom playing _Magic: The Gathering_ and commenting on the game. The other half has head designer of the game Mark Rosewater portrayed as an imp who occasionally takes orders from Satan and holds conversations with a red hairball named Thomas who only exist in his subconscious. Also, Kamahl, a fictional character from the game, barges into their apartment from time to time. All this leaves the main characters totally unfazed.
-   _Schlock Mercenary_: A battleship A.I. in charge of a ship that may have haunted plumbing. A former bounty hunter that can now 'excrete' shaped charges.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  A 'fast-food' worker charge with running a think tank to save the galaxy. And when a group of mercenaries find out just who's controlling an exo-galactic worldship...
    
    _"Don't tell me Captain Tagon saved the dinosaurs."  
    "... No. But I wouldn't put it past him."_
    

-   In the world of _Housepets!_, Most of human history has been shaped by gods playing a Cosmic Chess Game. The multiverse exists, as do most mythological creatures and deities in some form. Magic can be wielded to turn entire cities of humans into animals, and multiple forms of Mouse World exist in the lower levels of society. Despite this, conflict is generally relegated to Slice of Life scenarios, and The Unmasqued World doesn't occur until the very last arc.

    Web Original 

-   Rufus Hooter Talltales may be a delusional Cloud Cuckoo Lander, but his world as seen in _World's Greatest Adventures_ is gradually revealed to be bonkers in its own right. Werewolves, aliens, actual wizardyr, and regenerating hats.
-   In the WALL-E Forum Roleplay, the Chicago Colony is inhabited by humans, human popsicles, sapient animals, robots, robots that should have been part of a mass scrap years ago, an ousted robot spy, a robot based off an extremely destructive enemy automaton, a Turret rescued and given a robot body, a human robot sympathizer extremist, a human robot nonsympathizer, refugees from a nearly extinct race whose planet was blown up, refugees from a race of alien kangaroos whose planet was consumed by a Horde of Alien Locusts, refugees from a starship infested with Eldritch Abominations and generally considered to be a Bedlam House, a couple of immortal entities, and probably a few folks I haven't thought of. There's another faction located underground, they were until recently regularly attacked by a Reality Warper (who they finally killed), and some very old secrets have been discovered although there's probably some more. This is all considered to be completely normal.
    -   There are also a few other places on the planet that are inhabited, and then you go into space and things get _really_ weird... and that's not even counting Hyperspace Is a Scary Place....
-   _The Onion_ could be read as a serious newspaper from a crazy parallel world.
-   The whole crux of _Matt 'n' Dusty_, to the point where Lampshade Hanging has become a frequent running gag.
-   _Trinton Chronicles_ is a little bit of this in every single way with vampires, super powers, magic, and hyper tech being the norm.
-   _DSBT InsaniT_. Ghosts who can turn you invisible, deities manifested as waterfalls using the form of a woman as a hollow shell, and Mega-Microbes made of water are just normal things to the cast.
-   _Gaia Online_ features this, to an extreme, mostly due to its origins as a roleplaying community. They add a new canon race every year (or in the case of 2008 _five_), not including various item based and user created races. Santa Claus has been killed, revived, then _turned into a cow_. There have been two zombie invasions and an alien invasion. The first shopkeeper you meet is a former vampire with a talking cat. There are at least three Mega Corps, one owned by Mrs. Claus, and the other two owned by resident Megalomaniac Johnny K. Gambino and his clone. The Dark Elves run The Mafia. There is a city filled with Robots. Someone literally just _found_ orcs in a cave. Centaurs are bureaucratic environmentalists. There are Pirates, Ninjas, "Otami" Spirits, and The Men in Black. Oh, and random objects have been coming alive and attacking people. Strangely, NPCs only consider the last one weird.
    -   Funnily, quite a few of those things were player made organizations before becoming entrenched in Canon.
-   _Outside Xbox_ and its sister channel _Outside Xtra_ do weekly videos called, logically enough, "Show of the Week" for Xbox and "Show of the Weekend" for Xtra. These videos run entirely on the Rule of Funny, and as such contain whatever weirdness seems to fit the topic that week: vampirism and the zombie plague both exist (and are curable), host Jane Douglas is a mad scientist and part-time supervillain, the show has been invaded in past by alien creatures and malevolent wigs, and Luke Westaway and Ellen Rose of Xtra have a Pikachu toy with the power of time travel.
-   _Channel Awesome_ and other shows is set in the Reviewaverse, where it's pretty much this. Everything fictional is real, and the universe has its own type of magic, mad science, and other weirdness.
-   _Venturian Tale_ The world of the Venturian Tale roleplay is ridiculous. It has a man who teleports using toilets, a planet where all gingers are from, people being haunted by Mario and Elsa, a paranormal investigation team lead by a man named Johnny Ghost who has a serial killer alternate personality named Jimmy Casket, Dinosaurs, Dragons, a ton of paranormal entities, other dimensions, aliens, Sith lords and Jedi, Creapypasta characters going to high school, dating humans, and getting normal jobs, Five Nights at Freddy's characters walking around as if they were normal people, several memes existing as people, characters being turned into watermelons, a microwave that opens portals, and the main character, Papa Acachalla is a vampire hunting Indian Chief Timelord who was born in Zimbabwe thousands of years ago and turns a Hispanic man named Jose Jose Jose Jose every Monday at midnight, his kids are also weird, his daughter Sally turns into an Eldritch Abomination Waffle Demon when she doesn't get waffles and is also dating Slenderman, his adoptive son Billy is a Sith spy who was brainwashed by a watermelon to kill his real father, his other son Spencer is an Eldritch Abomination obsessed with all things nerdy possessing the body of a cult leader, the only slightly normal child ,Sue, is a man who was accidentally registered as a daughter rather than a son when being adopted, Papa Acachalla's wife Gertrude is a actually an interdimensional super hero known as The Crowbar and is also an alien from Gingeria, the planet of the Gingers who once sent him into the world of Dark Souls by hitting him with her crowbar.
-   The _SCP Foundation_ normally doesn't have this, as the titular organization tries very hard to prevent the weirdness from escaping their grasp. But in the Broken Masquerade canon, this is certainly the case. Just look at the front page of Wikipedia!
-   In _The Jenkinsverse_ the city of Folctha on the planet Cimbrean has evolved into this, as the only planet where non-Deathworld aliens and humans coexist. As retiring police chief Gabriel Arés told his successor:
-   While a case could be made that even the vanilla world of _Skyrim_ is one of these, it is _especially_ so during the _Steam Train_ playthrough of it since Ross has a mod installed to turn all the dragons into Macho Man Randy Savage and is using various Speed Runner Good Bad Bugs to sprint forever<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and clip through walls<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  and beat the game _in under 3 hours_. Dan sums it up the best:
    
    **Dan:** So what you're telling me, right now, to the casual observer in this world, the world is full of Macho Man dragons and marathon-running cats with bowls that can walk through walls.
    

    Western Animation 

-   The amount of weirdness running around in the world of _Oscar's Orchestra_ is truly stunning- there's Animate Inanimate Object musical instruments, sci-fi technology that runs the gamut from "expected futuristic staple" to "bizarre one-off piece of Applied Phlebotinum", giant talking rats ("Oscar Cracks A Nut"), aliens ("Star Tours"), magic corruption rings ("The Ring"), magic lamps ("Dance Of The Forty Thieves" and "Return Of Scheherazade"), vampires ("Fangs But No Fangs"), mermaids ("Water Music")... the list goes on.
-   _The Venture Bros._: A supervillain union, a henchman support group, Blaculas, sasquatches, haunted Indian burial grounds, necromancy, alchemy, super-science as a discipline of science, and you can even wake up in a bathtub full of ice in Mexico, minus your kidneys! Also, David Bowie is the leader of a globally-recognized organization for the benefits of super villains, though according to the Season 5 finale he's actually a shapeshifter who met Bowie and assumed his identity.
-   _Garfield and Friends_: Garfield foils multiple alien invasions, helps a witch get married, protects Bigfoot from nosy photographers, gets chased by a ghost, and encounters multiple robots and prehistoric animals. The characters in the US Acres segment find this happening to them as well, in addition to aliens and robots they've encountered an angel and discovered a chocolate mine.
-   _The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy_ has this in spades, including the _actual_ goddess Eris.
-   Pretty much the premise of _Ugly Americans_.
-   _Futurama_: Alien invasions, Timey Wimey Balls including a double-subverted grandfather paradox, brains that make people dumb and plan to destroy the universe once they're omniscient (leading to yet _another_ Timey-Wimey Ball), time is both a straight line and a circle, Amazon planets, native Martians, amoral robots that want to kill all humans, robots insisting they evolved when they were created by man, celebrity heads in jars, suicide booths, a zombie that represents the spirit of Chanukah, a spaceship that became omnipotent when it crashed into God, rape tentacles from another universe, French-accented gargoyles, parallel universes inhabited by cowboys, hippies, and people with no faces, believing you've ended up in a post-apocalypse 41st century only to learn that you just accidentally ended up in Los Angeles... Yeah. The future sure is wacky.
-   _The Simpsons_ initially confined most paranormal weirdness to the Halloween episodes, but they eventually bled over into the regular episodes as well, resulting in a Springfield that's seen alien visitations, multiple acts of divine intervention (including a premature Rapture), Vishnu living in the center of the Earth, Colonel Sanders and Spongebob Squarepants as divine entities, Bart having psychic powers, TVs that display plot-convenient commercials even though they're not plugged in, leprechauns, expies of the Thing and the Incredible Hulk, Chinese dragons, an island modeled after _The Prisoner_, the Dalai Lama having the power to fly, supernatural vision quests induced by eating too-spicy chili, and a little green man named Ozmodiar who only Homer can see or hear. Of course, 90% of these examples are just brief gags.
-   _Family Guy_ has enough collective weirdness for its own page.
-   As early as its _first_ season, _South Park_ has covered extraordinary events including (but not limited to) a clone attack, genetically engineered hostile turkeys, a mechanized Barbra Streisand, talking feces, zombies, alien invaders, and a heavyweight title fight between Jesus Christ and Satan. For the boys, it's all a part of growing up in South Park.
-   _Metalocalypse_ is set in a world where a death metal band became one of the world's biggest economies, and its Loony Fans are impressionable and downright murderous. And the band is a Walking Disaster Area that causes all sorts of disaster (ancient trolls, hurricanes) to the point an Illuminati group of sorts follows them.
-   _Regular Show_ stars a six foot tall blue jay and a two foot tall raccoon, who work with an anthropomorphic lollipop, a yeti and...whatever Muscle Man is, for a walking, talking gumball machine in a world mostly populated by ordinary human beings, who don't consider this unusual. On their first day of work they tie at rock-paper-scissors a hundred times in a row, summoning an Eldritch Abomination from a black hole, and then turn everything back to normal by breaking the tie. This is then shown to be par for the course.
-   _Adventure Time_ has ghosts, trippy dimensions in space, soul-sucking demons from Hell, cyclopes whose tears heal wounds, tiny cat assassins, etc. Where do you think the 'Adventure' part comes from?
    -   Interestingly, the series actually gives us a concrete divergence point as to when and where everything went insane; there was a nuclear war that involved a mutagenic bomb, which somehow made magic come back. Its shown that in a world where that particular bomb never exploded, things are much more conventionally postapocalyptic.
-   _Oggy and the Cockroaches_ is centered around a cat that is constantly abused by three sapient cockroaches. But that's not what makes it weird, noooo.. It also gives us a remote that can freeze people and revive them if they got pissed on, a whistle that can stop time in certain areas, vegetables that come to life, electricity that turns funny animals non-anthromorphic, teleportation devices, invisibility potion made by random junk and _a cube that manipulates people into loving it and growing bigger in the process_ among others.
-   _Phineas and Ferb_ stars two step-brothers who can create pretty much anything, not to mention there's secret agent animals, mad scientists, lake monsters, aliens, alternate dimensions, etc.
-   The town of Elmore in _The Amazing World of Gumball_ is a place where anything can (and will) come to life or spontaneously evolve from pet to family member. Not to mention the wackiness that happens from day to day. Don't take this lightly, though. There have been moments where it's gotten hostile...
-   The _SWAT Kats: The Radical Squadron_ face down villains in Megakat City every week, ranging from a red and purple Bomb Throwing Anarchist, to a half-kat half-snake hybrid/walking biohazard who uses chemical warfare in an effort to turn the city into a swamp, to a pair of gangsters who got their brains transplanted into robotic bodies, and more.
-   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_ uses this trope quite a bit. Magic A Is Magic A is in full effect, but along comes an earth pony who can seemingly break the laws of physics and reality on a whim? It's just Pinkie Pie being Pinkie Pie. The once world-conquering and feared Spirit of Chaos is now reformed and dropping by your Gala to do stand-up? Yeah, he's not that funny so let's heckle him! Two fiercely-powerful wizards are having a duel? Cool, let's go watch! A monster is invading the town? Meh, wedding preparations are more important. Cerberus escaped from Tartarus (yes, that Cerberus and _THAT_ Tartarus)? Good thing he's rather tame and the gates of Hell are less than a day's walk away!
    -   The spin-off _My Little Pony: Equestria Girls_ series plays with this. The human world _was_ normal until the ponies decided it'd be cool to use it as a can to dump some sirens in and later introduce Equestrian magic as a whole to the world, which is slowly but surely turning it into one with each subsequent movie.
-   The Unknown in _Over the Garden Wall_ a place with things like Funny Animals, Pumpkin People, talking birds, among other things. And of course The Beast. Of course might be All Just a Dream.
-   The original _Babar_ show was very much grounded in reality (aside from the Talking Animals, of course) but the 2000's reboot turn the setting straight-up World of Weirdness with Babar and family traveling to very strange magical lands of things like living toys, sentient games, giants, fairies and the like. The Sequel Series _Babar and the Adventures of Badou_ staring Babar's grandson disregards completely the 2000's reboot and get things back to the more relatively realistic setting. It even may be _more_ realistic as it shows some non-civilized animals.
-   The world of _Gravity Falls_ is home to all sorts of supernatural oddities, many of them concentrated in the eponymous town. The main characters encounter gnomes, unicorns, ghosts, macho minotaurs, living video game characters, a monster made from unwanted Halloween candy, the long-lost eighth-and-a-half President of the United States, and more.
-   _The Proud Family_ seems pretty normal at first glance, but it wasn't afraid to tell us it could still fit this trope to a Tee. There's a wanted criminal who plans to mind control all tweens with his music, snacks that taste gross but can actually give you superpowers and the ability to spin ghost into oblivion, the town where it set in (and apparently even half of the country) is under control by a Magic Johnson expy, _Today_ weatherman Al Roker appears As Himself while also being a Jerkass Genie who's okay with putting _babies into slavery,_ and the show's Big Damn Movie had the descendant of George Washington Carver making clones of the main cast and peanut humanoids in order to destroy all of humanity. Oh yeah, and one episode shows that the characters are apparently aware that they're in a cartoon.
-   _Star Trek: Lower Decks_ revels in the weirdness established by the other _Trek_ shows and movies. Everything from Starfleet officers going god-like and turning into a giant head, evil computers taking over a planet and a giant space koala witnessed by those dying or ascending to another plane of existence are around, and the Starfleeters mostly just take it all in stride.
-   _Totally Spies!_ features villains with plots including (but not limited to): making everyone in the world extremely fat and hooked on cookies; depleting the entire Earth of its water supply; kidnapping teen girls and using life-draining chemical treatments to elongate their hair to harvest for wigs; developing toys that cause adults to regress into children; brainwashing shoppers to become violent anti-capitalists that destroy malls; kidnapping athletes and trapping them inside sports-themed video games; tricking weightlifters into eating nutrition bars that cause them to grow gigantic muscles to the point of exploding; abducting Nobel Prize-winning scientists to suck out their intelligence and transfer it into the brain of a preteen boy; and replacing world leaders with robotic duplicates that allow national landmarks to become amusement park rides. While most episodes will feature crowds of panicking bystanders, no one ever comments on the fact that the planet is in peril virtually every week, or that the only thing preventing total annihilation is a single team of teenage girls who are undercover spies.
-   _American Dad!_ starts out fairly weird, what with the cast including a stranded alien and a goldfish with the brain of an East German skier, but gets more and more weird as it goes, featuring such things as the Ghost of Christmas Past, the Rapture, evil Santa Claus, Krampus, elements of _The Epic of Gilgamesh_, time-travelling cyborgs, cloning, remote-controlled avatar bodies, ghosts created from sexual frustration, TV-dwelling demonic abominations, sexually-aggressive wraiths, sentient jeans, people uploaded into _Oregon Trail_, gigantic fish monsters, witches, a bunch more aliens (one of whom becomes Kim Kardashian), and the aforementioned stranded alien being a Master of Disguise to an impossible, reality-warping degree.

___