_"It's like the Nothing never was!"_

The World-Healing Wave magically repairs a setting of any and all destruction done to it by evil forces. It can have a lot of different causes: the heroes may be returning the Cosmic Keystone to its proper place/owner, the Fisher King is healed, the God of Evil is slain and their Walking Wasteland effect is undone, the players reset the computer system, or a God of Good uses a _massive_ display of Fertile Feet and Green Thumb to restore the place.

Any people, plants, animals, and structures killed and destroyed may be brought Back from the Dead en masse. Thus, Disney Death can be included in the healing.

The wide scale of the effect can be why the heroes have it as the objective of their quest. "We can fix everything if we do X" for instance. It can also be justified, if the Cosmic Keystone or what-have-you that caused this event really is _that_ big a deal, such as the Magical Underpinnings of Reality.

This is the good counterpart to the World-Wrecking Wave.

See also Solar CPR. This trope is the last resort of the Small Steps Hero. Compare Saved by the Phlebotinum and "End of the World" Special.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   In _CLANNAD_, there's a smaller version of this. The Girl from the Illusionary World manages to use the Orbs of Light brought by Tomoya (as the Garbage Doll) to cause a Retcon; it saves Nagisa from her Death by Childbirth and Ushio from her illness, while also healing Fuuko from her coma.
-   In _D.Gray-Man_, having the Musician play the piano in Noah's Ark reversed the download which restored the setting as well as all the characters who hadn't been killed in battle.
-   _Digimon_:
    -   Yukio Oikawa does one at the end of _Digimon Adventure 02_ by using the power of a world were dreams come true to convert himself into energy and revitalize the Digital World. Justifed at least in this case because, as the way he did it was previously explained.
    -   In _Digimon Frontier,_ the world was in disarray because bad guys had stolen important data. We sometimes got to see ruined areas restored after the fall of the Monster of the Week early on. In the final episode, the entire Digital World had been fed to the Sealed Evil in a Can to fuel his full restoration, and he plans to make a new world in his image. When he's taken down for good, we get to see an entire world — the Digital World in its natural state, seen only in flashbacks until now — form from shiny barcodey lights.
-   The plot of almost every _Dragon Ball_ story arc inevitably involves using the Dragon Balls to generate one of these. To the point where in later episodes, they hardly even worry about the damage they do fighting the Big Bad because they know they can do this once they're done defeating the Big Bad.
-   Two of these take place in _Fushigi Yuugi: Genbu Kaiden_, as the two wishes that Takiko makes to Genbu before dying:
    -   First, the country of Hokkan (Genbu's land) is about to be consumed not just by the upcoming war with Kutou, but by a glacial era that would be a MASSIVE disaster since Hokkan itself is made of steppes and plains. Takiko tells Genbu "Return spring to this land once more", Genbu accepts and the climate changes accordingly, saving the country from being covered in ice for what could be centuries.
    -   Second, the wish that follows is basically one "for all the living things of this country to be restored to what they once were". Genbu fulfills it via miraculous water that spreads through the country, healing wounded soldiers (which makes both sides of the Hokkan/Kutou war stop their fighting) and melting the snow away...
-   The ending of _Green Legend Ran_ anime results in this. For decades the Earth had been reduced to a wasteland due to an alien influence, and when the Big Bad was finally defeated, Ran and his Magical Girlfriend magically restored the Earth back to what it used to be.
-   In _Guardian Fairy Michel_, this tends to happen whenever a fairy is recused, instantly fixing the problems its capture caused.
-   _Juuni Senshi Bakuretsu Eto Ranger_: Once the Jyarei Monster of the Week is defeated and purified by the heroes, it transform into a flower that undoes all the damage caused and turning the once Fractured Fairy Tale back to normal.
-   At the end of _Kanon_, Ayu's miracle undoes all the tragic deaths occurring earlier in the series and heals Akiko.
-   Massively subverted in _Legend of Heavenly Sphere Shurato_. The Goddess Vishnu releases one when she's restored to normal after having been Taken for Granite, repairing the Tenkuukai and reviving her fallen Hachibushu warriors. However, it has two drawbacks: she cannot revive Gai due to external influences... and when the one who intervened appears (Shiva, Goddess of Destruction), the Tenkuukai starts _falling apart again_.
-   In _Naruto the Movie: Ninja Clash in the Land of Snow,_ the hexagonal crystal that Princess Koyuki carries around is implanted in a device that causes the never-ending winter in the Land of Snow to end and spring to arrive.
-   Also used in _Negima! Magister Negi Magi_, when the newly released Asuna uses her sword and Code of the Lifemaker to repair the damage done to Mundus Magicus (which was gradually being erased) and bring back the people who have been erased before.
-   The heroes of _Nurse Angel Ririka SOS_ save the world from evil, illness-spreading aliens with this trope — in conjunction with Fill It with Flowers.
-   At the end of the second arc of _Pokémon Adventures_, Yellow and Lugia unleash the energy generated from the badge amplifier onto mainland Kanto, turning areas devastated by pollution into green fields.
-   In the _Pretty Cure_ series, it is customary for the battlefield to return to its ordinary state after the Monster of the Week is defeated and the bad guys escape. _Fresh Pretty Cure!_ is the only series where this doesn't happen all the time for reasons that were never explained. This exception to the rule is made more jarring as this is the first Precure series where the Monsters of the Week are summoned exclusively to attack civilians rather than just to fight the eponymous Magical Girl Warriors and, as such, the levels of mayhem and destruction are higher than the previous seasons.
-   In _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_, this is, more or less, the result of Madoka's wish in the final episode. Magical girls and others who are killed by witches get brought back. Magical girls who became witches, on the other hand, are whisked away to Magical Girl Valhalla by Madoka at the moment when they would have become witches. Madoka herself is removed from existence because she would have become an even more powerful version of Kriemhild Gretchen otherwise.
    -   _Puella Magi Madoka Magica The Movie: Rebellion_ features another one, this time generated by Homura. If anything, the world it creates is even better than Madoka's - at the expense of it being explicitly under Homura's full control, and by this point, she is pretty much an emotionally\-shattered Well-Intentioned Extremist who believes Utopia Justifies the Means.
-   At the end of _RahXephon_, it is revealed that the instrumentalist can create a world according to their will. Ayato's choice creates a world where all the people he loves are happy, and the Mullian war never happened.
-   The ending of the first season of the first _Sailor Moon_ ending, in which Moon releases the full power of her Silver Crystal and both defeats Metallia/Beryl, reverses the damage done by the Dark Kingdom _and_ revives the dead Senshi, Mamoru/Endymion and herself as her last wish on the Crystal, albeit without memories. (For a while). It's also implied that Crystal Tokyo is heralded in when Neo Queen Serenity ascends and pulls one of these for the entire planet after some global freeze/disaster.
-   In _SD Gundam Force_, when the Dark Axis launches a full-scale invasion of Neotopia, they unleash a swarm of Bagu Bagu that turns most of the city's organic creatures and vegetation to stone. Captain Gundam, using his Soul Drive and powers granted by Zero and Bakunetsumaru, is able to reprogram the Bagu Bagu so that they reverse the effect, restoring Neotopia to its original splendor. In the final episode, the same thing is done to Lacroa, the last nation the Dark Axis conquered.
-   Played straighter than straight in _SSSS.GRIDMAN_. The whole setting took place in Cyberspace, and besides the city the main story took place in and one other area used for a Beach Episode, there literally was nothing in the virtual world. The final episode saw Gridman defeat Alexis Kerib not with one of his usual finishers, but the Grid Fixer Beam, which he used to heal the heart of Akane Shinjo, cutting off Alexis Kerib from his Resurrective Immortality. In the process, Gridman also turned the whole virtual world into a 1:1 duplicate of Earth, as well as reviving everyone who died over the course of the series.

    Comic Books 

-   Several months after a World-Wrecking Wave scours the Earth in _Eight Billion Genies_, someone makes a wish to restore the world and bring back most plant and animal life (except for the humans killed earlier).
-   Happens in an issue of the _Fantastic Four_ after Earth is devastated by a gravity wave sent by Ego the Living Planet. An otherwise ordinary man with reality-warping powers unknown to him mistakes the FF's leaving to deal with the threat as them fleeing the planet, and his wish that things never happened winds things back as if the attack never occurred, burning out his powers permanently in the process.
-   _The Immortal Thor_: Thor uses the All-Power to summon "the calm before the storm" and repair most of the physical damage from Toranos' attack on New York. Unfortunately, he can't heal the people who were hurt or killed.
-   _The Mighty Thor_: Odin did this in one issue, although in this case, it was more of a universe-healing wave.
-   In _Zombies Christmas Carol_, Scrooge's reformation and kindness to his fellow man, especially the Hungry Dead, change the infected to normal and let the already-dead ones die peacefully.

    Fan Works 

-   Played With in _Ace Combat: The Equestrian War_. The Mane Cast use the Elements of Harmony powered up by Celestia and Luna's magic to slowly rejuvenate Equestria to the state before the war with the griffins. However, everyone who died during the war stays dead.
-   _Cheshire (Miraculous Ladybug)_: While Adrien as Misterbug has the Miraculous Cure, Marinette as Cheshire has _Catastrophe_, an equivalent ability activated when she purifies an Akuma with Cataclysm. But it has the catch that it _must_ be released soon after Cataclysm, or it will strain Marinette's body.
-   The season 1 finale for _Children of Time_: Time is healing and beginning to move again after being frozen, thanks to the actions of Sherlock Holmes and John Watson. Beth Lestrade later describes it as having hit a Temporal Reset Button — she herself came Back from the Dead after having died during Frozen Time. In other words, her death never _happened_ since that timeline was wiped.
-   _Infinity Train: Blossoming Trail_: Un-Chloe's death brings with it a massive wave of good fortune and magic. All across the countryside, people's lives are affected for the better; students taking tests suddenly realize the answers they got wrong, people confess their love to each other, athletes win competitions, and Chloe's mom is struck with a sudden burst of inspiration in her art.
-   At the climax of _The Dashverse_ story _Hot Heads, Cold Hearts, and Nerves of Steel_, when the Elements of Harmony and the Crystal Heart are combined against Sombra, the released energy blast depowers him, cleanses the Crystal Empire of his taint, and seals his Windigo servants in a crystal cage.
-   _A Diplomatic Visit_: In chapter 11 of the third story, _Diplomacy Through Schooling_, Twilight is able to undo the damage done by Tirek, including restoring her school and library, via tapping Time's powers.
-   _The Equestrian Wind Mage_: After the Elements of Harmony destroy Demise once and for all at the end of Season 2, they then unleash one of these, which not only resurrects everyone killed during the Battle of the Crystal Empire, but also destroys the curse of enslavement Demise long ago placed on the monster races, freeing them all.
-   In _Everything You Deserve_, Adrien steals the Earrings and Wishes for a world where he can misuse his Miraculous to his heart's content. He also Wishes for Ladybug to be his slavishly devoted girlfriend. This creates a new reality where he's an infamous _villain_, and _Chloé_ got the Earrings instead, so that he gets 'Ladybug' as his girlfriend without getting what he _really_ wanted. Chloé is more than happy to abuse the Miraculous Cure in order to wipe away the damage done by their crime sprees. However, when Adrien orders her to _stop_ restoring and repairing everything, she's deeply shaken.
-   _Fallout: Equestria_ has The Gardens of Equestria. Twilight Sparkle's greatest creation, a megaspell powered by the Elements of Harmony able to cleanse all Equestria of all the radiation and taint created by the end of the war and return its ability to be a paradise again.
-   _The Karma of Lies_ Decontructs the usages of this in _Miraculous Ladybug_ in various ways:
    -   Adrien uses the existence of the Miraculous Cure as a self-justification for his Skewed Priorities. After all, everything's going to be magically restored once they win, including anyone who gets hurt or killed, so why does it _matter_ if he focuses on flirting, cracking jokes and teasing his partner than on fighting akuma?
    -   Marinette, by contrast, is forced to make a difficult call during the Final Battle with Hawkmoth, ordering a building to be destroyed so that Dark Owl's akumified object will be taken out before Viperion's five-minute time limit runs out. She does this knowing that there is no way to check the building and make sure it is unoccupied in time, reasoning that she can bring back any casualties with Miraculous Cure; however, having to do this still makes her sick to her stomach.
    -   After Gabriel is exposed as Hawkmoth, Adrien is honestly shocked to learn that his myriad charges include thousands of counts of murder due to all the people who were killed. (It's mentioned that Syren alone killed thousands when she drowned Paris, and other akumas have body counts as well.) He insists that the charges should be dropped, and that none of those deaths 'count' since everyone was brought back afterwards. His bodyguard regards him with silent disgust after hearing this argument, and while Lila backs him up, her internal thoughts reveal that she's only doing so to butter him up.
    -   At the same time, Adrien _also_ believes that he should be finanically compensated for his 'heroics' as Chat Noir, specifically insisting that he needs repayment for all the times he got temporarily killed on duty. Plagg directly points out his {{hypocri|te))cy, but Adrien brushes him aside while insisting "That's different."
    -   When Chat Noir makes the same argument during an interview, he's called out on it — the _physical_ consequences may be repaired, but the memories and psychological impact remain. Kagami and Luka point out that both of them have been akumatized _and_ had to deal with their loved ones being akumatized and coming after them.
-   Apparently happened in the _Oversaturated World_ when humanity gained magical abilities. Technically, this didn't so much heal the world as allow Sunset Shimmer to start healing the world herself, but given that it was doomed otherwise, it qualifies.
-   In _A Pink Planet_, Rose Quartzes were created with the express purpose of revitalizing parts of the planet that have been drained through gem creation. While not necessarily fool-proof, a slow and steady pace done in gem-production ensures that life can be reintroduced into a kindergarten with time.
-   _Pony POV Series_:
    -   At the end of the Dark World storyline, Rarity's ascension to being Liberalis, the Concept of the Mortal World, releases one of these that removes the last of Discord's tainted chaos from the world and restoring harmony.
    -   Later on, the use of _six_ sets of Elements of Harmony to defeat Nightmare Eclipse once and for all lets off a _timeline healing wave_ that breaks the "Groundhog Day" Loop that she turned the Dark World timeline into and fixes the damage she caused to it.
-   Destroying the portal in _Warriors of the World: Soldiers of Fortune_ triggers one of these, resetting the entire Kingdom to the state it was before the events of the story began. It also causes Laser-Guided Amnesia for those who did not survive the event; only those who survived remember what happened.
-   _With Strings Attached_: When the Hunter stabs the Heart of Evil on the Plains of Death, it releases a massive, ball-shaped burst of energy that spreads out over the Plains, destroying all the undead masses there and triggering rain in clouds that had been sitting there for ten years. Later, Ringo notes that some old seeds in the ground have started to sprout.

    Film — Animation 

-   _Barbie_ movies:
    -   At the end of _Barbie in the Nutcracker_, after the Mouse King's defeat.
    -   Calissa does one to the ocean after being released in _Barbie in a Mermaid Tale_.
    -   In the climax of _Barbie: Mariposa_, when Queen Marabella is healed and all the Flutterfield lights regenerate.
    -   The beginning of one is seen at the end of _Barbie in the Pink Shoes_, showing the return of flowers after the Snow Queen is defeated.
    -   _Barbie: Mariposa and the Fairy Princess_ has the villain cause a World-Wrecking Wave, which is reversed by Mariposa and Catania.
    -   In _Barbie and the Secret Door_, Malucia causes a World-Wrecking Wave by stealing all the magic. Alexa returns the magic to the world and everyone who lost it in the end.
-   _Buzz Lightyear of Star Command_: The end of The Movie has Buzz convert Zurg's World Wrecking Wave into one of these by using the force of his will and the Power Of Good to undo Zurg's corruption of the LGM's Phlebotinum.
-   _Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs_ does this at the end — the clouds over all the world's cities disappear in a magical wave.
-   Disney Animated Canon:
    -   _Beauty and the Beast_: After the Beast transforms back into the prince, magical sparks spread across the castle and transform it back to its original state, with the gargoyles transforming into angels and the darkened walls turning to alabaster.
    -   _Fantasia 2000_: In the "Firebird Suite" segment, the Sprite uses her Fertile Feet to restore the ashen landscape after the devastation brought on by the Firebird.
    -   _Frozen (2013)_: Summer returns to Arendelle once Queen Elsa finally gets a grip on her powers and thaws the eternal winter caused by her emotional distress.
    -   _Moana_: Once Te Fiti has her Heart restored, she's able to undo the blight that's been affecting islands across the Pacific; flowers bloom and coconuts that had begun to rot are shown becoming whole again.
    -   _Wreck-It Ralph_: Restoring the ruler of Sugar Rush restores the game.
    -   In _Raya and the Last Dragon_, the fate of Kumandra is tied to the Dragon Gem. When it's broken, the Druun escape and start turning everyone to stone. When it's restored, the Druun are eliminated, the people (and dragons) come back to life, and a new era of peace begins.

-   _Princess Mononoke_: When the Forest Spirit's head is shot off, its body spews a goo that destroys everything in its path, as a classic World-Wrecking Wave. After the heroes return it, the goo vanishes, and new plants sprout up from the ground, over Irontown... even the lepers are healed. But there's a price — the Forest Spirit is gone, now, and will never return.
-   _South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut_: The end has Satan use one of these to restore the world (or at least North America), including bringing everyone back to life. Except Kenny, who has to go back to being dead but is sent to heaven.
-   _The Spongebob Squarepants Movie_: At the end, SpongeBob does one, although it doesn't fix most of the damage.
-   _A Troll in Central Park_ has one at the end, with Stanley repairing Central Park after it was destroyed by Gnorga's World-Wrecking Wave. But he takes it too far, covering all of New York City in flowers, which would bring one of the most important cities in the world to a screeching halt and have a devastating effect on the ecosystem.
-   _Yellow Submarine_. As the Beatles sing "All You Need Is Love", all of the things destroyed and people frozen by the Blue Meanie attack are restored to wholeness/life.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   In Disney's live-action remake of _Beauty and the Beast (2017)_, the end of the Enchantress's curse works this way. The castle has been bathed in eternal winter since the Beast was hexed, and as the spell is broken, sunlight sweeps over the building, repairing its broken parts and restoring all of the servants to their human forms. Since this version addresses the Fridge Logic of the original—how the heck did an entire town not notice a massive castle full of enchanted objects in their backyard?—by having the spell remove the villagers' memories of the estate and its inhabitants ever existing, it's presumed that the magical light does the same to their minds.
-   The earthquake resulting from the restoration of the Earth's core to its normal spinning state in _The Core_ is described by DJ Qualls's character as "one giant shock wave" in which "the Earth is healing itself!"
-   At the end of _The Dark Crystal_, once the Crystal is healed, Kira is returned to life and/or her mortal wound is healed, the podling slaves regain their life essence, and the blighted landscape around the Crystal Castle is restored to Edenic glory.
-   At the end of _The Matrix Revolutions_, the entire Matrix is returned to normal as Neo's source code is reinserted, using a cool sci-fi effect and the requisite black cat.
-   At the end of _The Neverending Story_, when Bastian starts making wishes Fantasia is recreated the same as it was before the Nothing destroyed it.
-   _Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band_. The wave of goodness that passed over the town of Heartland at the end of the movie, canceling out all of the effects of Mr. Mustard's corruption.
-   In _Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan_, the Genesis Device is a World Healing Wave _weapon_. When fired at a planet, it converts the matter on the surface into life-sustaining matter, in effect terraforming the entire planet in days instead of years. It is shown to have worked on a cave, and in the end, it is detonated in a nebula, building an entire planet from scratch. _Star Trek III: The Search for Spock_, however, shows that it doesn't actually _work_. Said planet goes through its entire lifecycle (from newly formed planet to catastrophic destruction) in what is implied to be a week or two at most. This because its lead creator, Captain Kirk's son David Marcus, used unstable protomatter in order to basically cheat his way into completing the thing, showing he's not that different from his father.
    -   The trope is also subverted in that Genesis doesn't discriminate in what it converts. Whether dead rock or populated planet, _everything_ on the surface is getting culled for Genesis to do its thing. This becomes a big issue in the next few movies because Genesis represented one of the deadliest weapons known to civilization: a weapon that could not only kill all life on a planet but leave a perfectly healthy biosphere behind for whoever did the killing (or at least do the first part when they discovered how unreliable the creation part was). Perhaps even a biosphere _more suitable_ to the user's needs than the existing one. This is why the Klingon Ambassador in _Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home_ described it as the "Genesis Weapon", and was paranoid that the Federation intended to use it to wipe out the Klingon Empire. Worse, it may actually work just fine. It was meant for use on _dead planets,_ not what specks of matter it could pull together from a _nebula._ Apples and oranges, only more so. Though shortcuts were taken, (and for a casual fan, there's no knowing where the Expanded Universe stands on the matter) from what we got onscreen, a warning label on it that says "actual planet required" may be all that is necessary for the thing to go operational. It would be _very bad_ if misused.
-   In the original _TRON_, when the MCP is destroyed, all of the red lines in the landscape turn to blue (indicating the end of the MCP's influence) and all of the I/O towers light up, showing that programs can communicate with their Users again.

    Literature 

-   A classic example from _The Chronicles of Narnia_: in _The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe_, when Aslan returns, his presence alone is enough to end the hundred years of winter created by the White Witch, first bringing Christmas, then making flowers bloom and melting the frozen rivers without flooding. Within a day or so it has become early summer, restoring the natural balance. Characters that had been turned to stone by the Witch are revived by Aslan as well, though that takes more direct intervention.
-   At the end of the final book in Gael Baudino's _Dragon Sword_ trilogy, the first act of Alouzon after her apotheosis is to heal the land of the ravages of unleashing the equivalent of the Vietnam War-era United States Armed Forces on it.
-   At the end of _Good Omens_, Adam makes it so that the world will not remember the day that just passed and all that happened is undone: the Book shop did not burn, the Bentley is new again, and no one died.
-   _Left Behind_:
    -   Averted in the book _Kingdom Come_, as God and Jesus spend a few months restoring the earth to its former beauty following the end of the Tribulation to make it new for the Millennial Kingdom.
    -   Also possibly played straight in _Glorious Appearing_, when a nearly devastated Jerusalem is instantly restored and void of any dead bodies littering the streets after Jesus gets rid of the Global Community.
-   In _Messenger_, this is brought about by Matty sacrificing himself to heal the world — the Village's residents become good again, Trademaster is exiled, and Forest becomes mostly benevolent once more.
-   Semi-example at the end of the _Mistborn_ trilogy, after Sazed ascends to godhood all the damage that the Lord Ruler and Ruin did to the world is fixed, the ashmounts get sealed up, and there are flowers. It's only a semi-example because he hadn't figured out how to bring dead people back to life, so most of the original population is dead, but at least the survivors are safe and get a fresh start in a much better environment.
-   The Shem Ha Mephorash in _Unsong_, if spoken by a sufficiently intelligent and well-intentioned being. It's an acronym of who God is. If you understand it, you understand God and his omnibenevolence and if you understand God's motivations, there's no reason not to give you omnipotence.
-   In _The Radiant Dawn_, when Stacie surrenders and absorbs all the evil magic into the throne, all the undead risen by said magic fall apart and crumple — but nobody is resurrected and all the destruction they wrought remains.
-   The Great UnDoing in _Septimus Heap_ works like this, and recovering its text is a major plot point in _Darke_.

    Live-Action TV 

-   In _Denkō Chōjin Gridman_ (and its English counterpart _Superhuman Samurai Syber-Squad_), Gridman/Servo had a special ability (called the Fixer Beam in _Gridman_) that repaired the damage done to computer systems once the Monster of the Week was destroyed. This is also how Gridman defeats Alexis Kreib in _SSSS.GRIDMAN_.
-   _Doctor Who_: In "The Poison Sky", the Doctor uses an atmospheric converter to purify the Earth's atmosphere of the Sontarans' Hostile Terraforming gases. The device works by setting the sky on _fire_, leaving behind blue sky after the wave of fire passes.
-   _Once Upon a Time_: This happens twice.
    -   Emma's goodbye kiss to Henry not only brings the kid back to life, but breaks the curse on the entire town of Storybrooke. Of course, no sooner had it happened than Rumplestiltskin decided to trigger a spell that inverts the trope, bringing magic to the mundane world within the town's borders.
    -   This happens again in season 3 as a way of bringing back everyone's memories of the year spent in the Enchanted Forest and Henry's memories of magic. Surprisingly, this time it's Regina, the resident (semi-reformed) Evil Queen, who kisses Henry and achieves this.
-   _Photon_ has villains who want to turn every planet into a barren wasteland and heroes who want all planets to have life. Whenever the heroes charge a crystal with light energy on a barren world, it immediately becomes full of life.
-   _Power Rangers_:
    -   The wave of goodness released by Zordon's death at the end of _Power Rangers in Space_ which either disintegrated (most of them) or turned good (Rita and Zedd, Divatox, Astronema, and according to the comics, Finster) all the villains from that point to the beginning of the franchise.
    -   _Power Rangers Lost Galaxy_ ends with the returned Sabers restoring the people of Mirinoi. Even less understandably it revives the dead Pink Ranger (the character died because the actor was ill, and the actor had recovered by the time of the finale).
-   The Dakara superweapon in _Stargate SG-1_ was originally designed to do this. Even though it was called a "weapon," it's more a tool that can be used as a weapon. When tied in with the Stargate network to vastly increase its range, the Dakara device can do almost anything the user desires, up to and including rewriting the entire galaxy on a molecular level. It unleashes one of these to demolish all the Replicators in the galaxy in "Reckoning, Part 2". Of course, it's a World-Wrecking Wave if you happen to be a Replicator. And would've been for _everything_ if Anubis had gotten his hands on it; his plan was to erase all life in the Milky Way then recreate it according to his own design. Since Anubis himself was no longer truly alive, he would've survived the process.
    -   In fact, this is how life came to exist in the Milky Way. The Ancients came here from their own galaxy and found a lifeless one. So they created the Dakara device to seed it with life, including the potential for humans (who are by design nearly identical to the Ancients).

    Music 

-   In Nightwish's song, "Devil and the Deep Dark Ocean", once the Devil is defeated, the angels declare that "We shall come to set the dolphins free/We shall wash the darkened bloodred sea/Our songs will echo over the mountains and seas/Eternity will begin once again in peace"

    Tabletop Games 

-   _Dungeons & Dragons_: nature elementals, comprised of the four classical elements and the fifth element, life, enact small-scale versions of this. When summoned, these titans of earth and foliage reduce a one-mile radius to a pristine state by destroying any structures and humanoids in the area. In the aftermath, new vegetation grows overnight, the local water sources are purified, and wildlife immediately repopulates the area.

    Toys 

-   _BIONICLE_:
    -   Mata Nui does this to repair the fragmented world of Spherus Magna. Effects include Terraforming, growing large amounts of vegetation, and curing the effects of some Mutagenic Goo.
    -   The Staff of Artakha does this to repair all damage caused by the Great Cataclysm except for Karda Nui.

    Video Games 

-   In _Bastion_, this is invoked but deconstructed in the Restoration ending. The Bastion _completely_ resets the world, so the characters are replaced with their past selves, and there is nothing to stop events from repeating themselves.
-   Cities in _Black & White 2_ have an Empathic Environment that reflects their ruler's morality, so when an Evil city is taken over by a Good god, its desolate environment is overrun with a wave of wildflowers, butterflies, and sunlight.
-   _BoxxyQuest: The Gathering Storm_ has one at the end, when the heroes load Arianna’s backup files, restoring all the sites she erased, and curing all the Overtaken who were converging on the Firewall en masse.
-   On a somewhat smaller scale, in _Crysis 2_ you hack the alien bioweapon to instead spread a wave of the anti-virus through New York, instantly killing the aliens and seemingly curing the diseased humans.
-   _de Blob_'s Transformation Engines send out a wave of positive energy that helps restore the color and plants of all the neighboring areas and gets rid of the gloomy gray sky.
-   In _Disney Princess: Enchanted Journey_, this happens after you beat the final boss, restoring Gentlehaven Castle and everything around it.
-   _Dragon Quest XI_: The game's Big Bad, Mordegon, steals the heart of the world tree, Yggdrasil, setting the second half of the game After the End and causing much of the world to end up as a charred wasteland. Once you defeat him, Yggdrasil is restored and emits one of these, restoring life and beauty to the land.
-   Averted in _Final Fantasy VI_. Although killing Kefka stops the gradual extinction of all life on the planet, and turns the sky and ocean blue again, the world is still in ruins. With the symbolism of flowers blossoming, doves flying, and a baby being born, it's at least strongly implied that the world will recover.
-   _Fire Emblem_:
    -   _Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance_ has this happen on a smaller scale. At the end of Chapter 17, the previously destroyed Serenes Forest is restored using the Galdr of Rebirth. Here's the scene in question. Warning: may contain spoilers.
    -   _Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn_, however, is a much larger scale. After Ashera was defeated, her judgement on the continent that transformed its people into stone is undone. Yune, both the bird and the goddess, flies above the battlefield where the judgement first happened and soon, the rest of the continent was restored.
    -   One happens in a _Fire Emblem Fates's_ DLC stage, _Hidden Truths_. Good Anankos recruits Owain, Severa and Inigo and promises to fulfill a wish as payment. They ask him to use one of these to heal the realm they come from, ravished by a God of Evil in their Bad Future, and to properly bury their dead. Good Anankos agrees and uses his Dragon's Vein powers, which are strong enough to terraform _a whole continent_, to "heal" the Awakening world and bury the fallen ones; when he's done, the group hears the voices of the kids's parents and the dead Avatar from their world, thanking them and Good Anankos for their kindness.
-   Occurs in the first, second and last levels of _Flower_. Particularly in the last level, you _are_ the healing wave!
-   Somewhat cynically used in _Gears of War 3_. The Imulsion was parasitic and the Lambent forces were merely an extension of that, most everything on the planet had some degree of contamination. Adam Fenix devised a pulse-generating machine to neutralize the Lambent and in doing so it couldn't discriminate against the Imulsion in any living being, including Locust or Humans. Because the Locust had so much longer exposure to Imulsion they are virtually wiped out in the process. Humans who spent an inordinate amount of time with Imulsion were also killed, including Adam himself.
-   _Kings Quest III Redux_ (the AGD _King's Quest III_ Fan Remake): If you are able to get a certain item, then it will create this effect over the dragon-ravaged Daventry at the end.
-   In _Labyrinths of the World 9: Lost Island_, when afDietrich is arrested for his crimes, an energy wave restores all of the worlds he's ravaged.
-   _The Legend of Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon_: At the end, Spyro uses his full power loose one to reverse the destruction of the world caused by the Destroyer. Though it seems to be a Heroic Sacrifice at first, it turns out he and Cynder both survive.
-   _The Legend of Zelda_:
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past_: At the end, Link makes a wish on the Triforce and undoes all of Ganon's evil actions, including bringing his uncle and the King back to life.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker_: Hyrule has been sealed away, and when you find it everything is colorless. When you draw the Master Sword from its pedestal, color sweeps slowly across the area, also reviving a bunch of tough enemies to test the Master Sword on. Interestingly, this is later revealed not to necessarily be a good thing. Ganondorf explains that the Master Sword was serving as a seal on his power, and by removing it, Link not only restored that magic, but inadvertently advanced the Gerudo King's plot to control the Triforce. Granted, there really wasn't anything else Link _could_ do in this situation—he needs the Master Sword to defeat Ganondorf, as there's no other way for that to happen, so pulling it was the only option.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap_: Once Vaati is defeated and Zelda wishes for everything to be back to normal, you see all the enemies vanishing from existence across Hyrule. Hyrule Castle is also repaired and returned to normal, and all the guards are turned back from being stone. It's even described as a miracle.
    -   _The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds_ has Link and Princess Zelda using the Triforce to restore Lorule (Hyrule's counterpart) to its former glory before its own Triforce was destroyed to prevent its powers from being misused any further. Lorule even gets their Triforce back, which causes Princess Hilda to cry with tears of joy after she just had accepted the fate of her once doomed kingdom.
-   _Lunar: The Silver Star_: At the end, large parts of the world have had all life sucked from them and the main hero is gone, then this happens.
-   Activating the Crucible in _Mass Effect 3_ makes it do this to Earth, with Shepard's decisions changing the exact nature of the wave itself, but all of them result in the Reapers' systems being fundamentally changed forever. Have a low enough Effective Military Strength, and it becomes a world-_killing_ wave as it fires indiscriminately, wiping out _all life on Earth_.
-   In _Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time_, when it's discovered baby tears reverse transmutations (and other mutations) caused by the Shroobs, Professor E. Gadd synthesizes a chemically identical solution and builds a device that rains it over the entire Mushroom Kingdom, undoing most of the damage done by the Shroobs.
-   _Ōkami_: Using the Bloom power on a Guardian Sapling results in a wave of flowers that removes the curse from the area with a visually heavy effect.
-   _Ori and the Blind Forest_ has one of these when the Spirit Tree is fully restored, but results in a Heroic Sacrifice... for Kuro, the villain.
-   In _Prince of Persia (2008)_, healing one of the fertile grounds results in a wave that wipes out the corrupted ruins revealing... well, still ruins, but nice ruins overgrown with greenery.
-   _\[PROTOTYPE 2\]_ does its own unique variant. After consuming Alex Mercer, Heller gets Cutscene Power to the Max and unleashes a barrage of tentacles that wipes out the NYZ infection.
-   _The Saboteur_: Anytime you liberate a Nazi-occupied territory, the region literally poofs from a stormy, gloomy City Noir mode to suddenly having color.
-   _Shining Resonance_: It turns out that Jinas has been seeking out one of these throughout the game to atone for past mistakes. It's the Last Song, the original Rune Song that can only be played when all seven Armonics are gathered together, with which can heal all the damage the world has suffered from the Catastrophe and Ragnarok countless years ago. The reason it couldn't be cast earlier is that one of the Armonics was stolen during the ancient war and all seven with their current chosen bearers had never gathered back together until now.
-   _South Park: The Stick of Truth_: All the Nazi Zombies revert back to life after The Chosen One uses the Dangerous Forbidden Technique and farts on Princess Kenny's balls. It's... yeah...
-   In _Spiritfarer_, each time Stella buys a candy bar from the Overbrook vending machine, it releases a magical wave across the island that restores it to its former glory.
-   _Spirits of Anglerwood Forest_: What happens when you beat the final level. A wave comes out of Ezra's tree and restores the Fenn farm and everyone who was transformed back to normal.
-   Your ultimate reward for reaching the center of the Galaxy in _Spore_ is the Staff of Life, which allows you to create a wave of green energy that instantly transforms a barren planet into a thriving terraformed world. You can only use it 42 times, though.
-   In _Super Robot Wars Z2: Saisei Hen_, Uther does this in his strongest attack.
-   In the Golden Ending of the _World of Light_ in _Super Smash Bros. Ultimate_, killing Galeem and Dharkon at the same time unleashes one. After that, every single spirit goes up in a spire of flame to return to the real world as they wanted.
-   In the ending of _Tales of Berseria_ Maotoleus' Silver Flame covers the entire world, purifying (most) Daemons and turning them back in their original form and providing a way for them to be purified in the future, which was thought to be impossible by every other character in the game.
-   The Golden Ending of _Valkyrie Profile_ is in the form of this. Literal apocalypse was solved instantly.

    Webcomics 

-   In _El Goonish Shive_, Pandora's last act is to force every other member of her kind to cast a spell that destroys every Aberration within range of the spells, and it manifests as several lights creating a wave that destroys the Aberrations on contact.
-   _Girly_ has one of the most hilarious examples of this trope with the Sexy Discretion Shot animals.
-   In _Homestuck_, Jane, having received a boost in power, color, and insanity from a giant magic sucker, blasts off in search of her friends, creating an energy wave that turns half of her formerly dead planet into a blooming jungle.

    Web Original 

-   Parodied in _BRODYQUEST_, where Adrien Brody's interstellar guitar solo causes instantiations of himself to appear all over world history - including on the Egyptian Sphinx, at NASA headquarters, in historical paintings, and on the Pope's hat.
-   After the match in _Real Sumo Fighting 8_ splits the world in half, the gyoji puts it back together.

    Western Animation 

-   _Avatar: The Last Airbender:_ After the Fire Nation attacks, Aang brings up waters to put out the fires on the Earth kingdom. Not strictly a healing wave, but definitely in the spirit of it.
-   The titular _Captain Planet_ tended to act as a localized anthropomorphic version at the end of any given episode of the series that bears his name, cleaning up whatever pollution the villains had caused. This leads to a bit of Fridge Logic: why NOT pollute when a magical mullet man can clean it all up instantly?
-   _Code Lyoko_:
    -   Return to The Past has this effect, reverting the world 24 hours prior after bathing everything in a Pillar of Light. However, this comes with strings attached, and cannot reverse death or permanent virtualization. As the protagonists later learn, it also gives the Big Bad a power boost every time it's used, forcing them to rely on it a lot less than they used to.
    -   The series finale has a digital one as the XANA-killing program activates, not only eliminating all monsters from Lyoko, but also wiping all of the Lyoko Replikas and XANA from the internet itself.
-   In _Codename: Kids Next Door Operation: Z.E.R.O._, the world returns to its bright and sunny state, the KND's Treehouse Bases are reverted back from being tapioca factories, and everyone reverts back from being Senior Citizombies after Grandfather has been decommissioned back into a normal old man.
-   _Darkwing Duck_: In the climax of "NegaDuck", the good reality-warping version of Darkwing undoes the damage done to the city by its evil counterpart by creating a heart-shaped balloon, which the evil one naturally pops, releasing magic sparks that repair everything.
-   _Generator Rex_:
    -   When Six's previous mentor dies, his body changes into some kind of energy and causes vegetation to grow over the island they're currently on.
    -   In the series finale, Rex uses the united Meta-Nanites' power to initiate a Global Cure Event, sending a wave of energy across the world that ends the Nanite threat forever.
-   _Glitch Techs_: Part of the titular job after capturing the rogue glitch is to reset all collateral damage caused by the glitch and the fight with it. Combined with wiping the memories of all witnesses, this keeps up The Masquerade.
-   _Gravity Falls_: After Bill Cipher is defeated, all the destruction wrought by him and his Mooks on the titular town is repaired, including the journals, including pages that had originally been destroyed.
-   _Miraculous Ladybug_: Or in this case, a World Healing Swarm. Every time a Villain of the Week is defeated, Ladybug throws the summoned Lucky Charm used to defeat it into the air, causing a bunch of ladybugs to fly around the city and repair the damage done by the akumatized villain. There seems to be _no_ limit on what it can reverse, up to and including moving the Earth, returning those displaced in time, and restoring all of France and the partially destroyed _moon._ Also, there's no statute of limitation on how long ago the damage was caused (such as when a Villain of the Week sealed away in ancient times returns. With its defeat, all of Master Fu's fellow Guardians and their temple are restored after at least a century!). The only known limitation on it is that each Lucky Charm is tailor-made for the villain she's facing, so the damage has to be related to that villain. If Ladybug is unable to make a Lucky Charm for a villain before the villain becomes inactive, nothing can be repaired.
-   _My Little Pony_:
    -   _My Little Pony 'n Friends_:
        -   In "The Ghost of Paradise Estate, Part 4", once Squirk is defeated and his magically-created flood recedes, Megan uses rainbow beams from the flash stone to restore the devastated Dream Valley to its green and healthy self, quickly growing back plant life, restoring trees and fixing Paradise Estate.
        -   In "Woe Is Me, Part 2", when Woebegone breaks his curse by refusing to accept his own bad luck, the witch who first cast it appears before him, congratulates him for learning his lesson, and uses her magic to undo all the harm it causes.
        -   In "Baby, It's Cold Outside, Part 2", after Charlatan repents and Galaxy breaks the machine he used to cover the world in ice, a warm wind blows forth from it and thaws out all the things Charlatan froze.
        -   In "The Quest for the Princess Ponies, Part 4", once the princesses have their wands back, they use their magic to create a rainbow wave that undoes the magic that Lavan's power grab causes to Ponyland. Besides reversing the crystallization of the landscape, it also generally fixes everything left damaged and disordered by the ensuing chaos... except for the Moochick's armchair, which stays broken.
    -   _My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic_:
        -   In "The Return of Harmony, Part 1", Twilight Sparkle tries to cancel out the bizarre weather caused by Discord... it fails... miserably. In part 2, when the Elements of Harmony are unleashed on Discord, they turn him to stone and let loose a World-Healing Wave that restores Equestria to how it was before Discord appeared and turned it into his surreal playground.
        -   In "The Crystal Empire, Part 2", when Sombra is defeated, his influence is entirely cleansed from the Empire as the Crystal Heart purges it of his corrupted crystals and turns the sky back to its normal color.
        -   In "Princess Twilight Sparkle, Part 2", when the Elements of Harmony are returned to the Tree of Harmony, it releases a wave of magic that disintegrates the plundervines that had been overwhelming Equestria.
        -   In "Twilight's Kingdom, Part 2", after Tirek's defeat, the Mane Six release a rainbow wave which restores the magic of all the drained ponies, including restoring the Princesses' magic and releasing them from Tartarus.
        -   In "The Crystalling, Part 2", when the Crystal Heart is restored and revitalized, it sends out one of these to push the Frozen North's blizzard back beyond the Crystal Empire's borders while granting temporary Crystal Pony forms to the Mane Cast, including Princess Celestia and Princess Luna, who missed out on the first one that resulted in Sombra's demise in "The Crystal Empire".
        -   In "School Raze, Part 2" The Young Six manage to use the artifacts to foil Cozy Glow's plan and restore magic to Equestria in a big wave of power.
        -   In "The Beginning of the End, Part 2", the combined friendship magic of the main characters wipes away King Sombra's influence from Equestria, changing the sky back to normal and freeing all of his brainwashed victims.
        -   in "A Horse Shoe-In", Twilight Sparkle utilizes a very small version to reset a trashed classroom back to a pristine state.
-   In _Ōban Star-Racers_, Canaletto reduces the lush Ōban to a completely barren planet, as part of his plan to make the galaxy 'pure' and untainted by life. However, Jordan completely derails his plans by jumping into the sphere containing the Avatar's power atop the Pyramid of Power, becoming the new Avatar while restoring Ōban and obliterating Canaletto.
-   Downplayed in the Grand Finale of _The Owl House_. When Luz uses the power gifted to her by the spirit of the Titan, her spells evaporate miles worth of Belos' Meat Moss with every blast and cause the natural red grass of the Isles to grow in their wake, showing how the island is both symbolically and literally fighting against his corruptive influence.
-   _Peppermint Rose_ has the Peppermint Glow song spreads all across Bugoonya, turning the land beautiful and lush. When the peppermint roses are returned to their rightful place, the same happens to the land of Peppermint Rose.
-   In the episode "Mime for a Change", the _The Powerpuff Girls_ restore Townsville with this after Mr. Mime removes all color and sound by singing the song "Love Makes the World Go 'Round".
-   In the pilot of _Rainbow Brite_, after the Evil One is destroyed, the ground crumbles becoming Rainbow Land. In The Movie, color and springtime are restored to Earth.
-   In _ReBoot_, the user restoring Mainframe has this effect.
-   When Scooby and the Gang in _Scooby-Doo! Mystery Incorporated_ destroy the Nibiru entity, they restore the destroyed town to the peaceful, friendly place it was meant to be. The problem is that mystery solvers have no place in a town with no mysteries to solve. Luckily, they realize that there are plenty of places that have need of meddling kids and a dog and go on a road trip to find them.
-   _She-Ra and the Princesses of Power_: In the finale, She-Ra destroying the Heart and restoring Etheria's magic causes a wave of light, magic, and life to flow from the ruins, restoring it after Horde Prime nearly destroyed the planet.
-   Taken to its logical extreme in the Mortis trilogy of _Star Wars: The Clone Wars_, where the healing and wrecking waves are following each other in a constant circle, as part of the planet's Light and Dark in-balance symbolism: when night falls all plants die, and are reduced into ghastly glowing forms, and massive thunderstorms start. When dawn approaches all plant life is renewed.
-   _Tangled: The Series_: In the climax of "Queen For a Day", the Demanitus Device unleashes one of these which instantly wipes out all traces of the blizzard, causing the snowstorm to slow down and finally stop.
-   In the Season 4 finale of _Teen Titans_ Raven uses one of these to return the world to normal after Trigon turned all the people to stone, all the buildings into ruins, all the water into lava, and all the sky into a red haze. Since this happens the exact moment she defeats Trigon, it's unclear whether Raven personally created the wave of magical white light, or if banishing Trigon from the dimension automatically undid all the changes he made while there.
    -   It's possible the world healing wave turned all petrified people back to normal, as opposed to just undoing what Trigon had done. Terra was turned to stone before Trigon came to earth, and this spell could explain why she came back
-   In _The Transformers_ episode "The Return of Optimus Prime, Part 2", a Hate Plague is spreading across the galaxy that fills everyone it infects with uncontrollable rage. In a last attempt to stop it, Optimus Prime releases all the wisdom contained within the Matrix of Leadership, which not only cleanses Earth, and quite possibly _the entire galaxy_, but also leaves everyone a little wiser than they were before, and cures Galvatron's insanity.
-   In _Transformers: Prime,_ we get the Omega Lock. With the four keys in place, it can create one of these and revive Cybertron. However, Megatron wanted to direct it at Earth and "cyberform" it, overwriting what was already there with a new biosphere suitable for Transformers. Like the _Star Trek_ franchise's Genesis device, the difference between a World-Healing Wave and a World-Wrecking Wave can come down to whether or not that world had anything on it beforehand. Optimus was forced to strike the Omega Lock with the Star Saber, possibly ending any chance of ever reviving Cybertron. In the season 3 finale, a rebuilt but weaker Omega Lock is used to revitalize Cybertron's core. It's technically a world-healing wave, in that it brought the planet back to life, but it isn't powerful enough to fix all the surface damage. Better than nothing, though.
-   The _VeggieTales_ episode "Lord of the Beans" ends with the hero creating one of these with a magic bean thrown into a dry well.
-   At the end of both seasons of _W.I.T.C.H._, this happens, though most particularly in "The Final Battle", when Elyon and the Guardians defeat Prince Phobos and Elyon restores Meridian to its former glory, pre-being drained by Phobos. At the end of "Z is for Zenith", there's a downplayed version where Elyon returns to Meridian and restores it in a very brief scene where she resembles a comet flying across the palace.
-   _Xiaolin Showdown_: At the end of the first season, Wuya's return to physical form causes the surrounding region to decay. When she is imprisoned in a puzzle box again near the beginning of the second season, a World-Healing Wave occurs.

___