_"As Joseph Castellano... put it, 'What is a Gambino crime family? ...does this Gambino crime family have an office? Does the office have a plaque on the door that says, "Gambino crime family?"' In Japan, the answers would be, in reverse order, 'yes,' 'yes,' and 'read our rules and creed.'"_

— **Curtis J. Milhaupt and Mark D. West**, _The Dark Side of Private Ordering: An Institutional and Empirical Analysis of Organized Crime_

The Mafia.... BUT JAPANESE!! Yakuza <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  are Japanese mobsters, sometimes known outside Japan as "the Japanese Mafia", and euphemistically known inside Japan as "anti-social organizations" or "violent groups." <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Yakuza insist that their organizations originated in Robin Hood-style groups of outlaws and vigilantes during Japan's feudal era, but scholars believe that they are in fact descended from roving bands of Rōnin who harassed and extorted the local peasantry.

Not that these are mutually exclusive descriptions, though. Tired of robbing the penniless peasants, these Ronin bands often gravitated towards more affluent cities, where they sought employment as hired muscle. There, they mingled with and frequently joined local urban self-defense groups and mutual aid societies, and this is where their claim of the service to society comes from. The fact that these groups were often indistinguishable from criminal gangs is usually blissfully ignored. The modern descendants of such gangs are the very Yakuza groups that are discussed here. Today, some 70% of Yakuza come from _burakumin_ background, and 10% of Yakuza are ethnic Koreans (despite Koreans making up about 0.5% of the Japanese population), both of which are groups which have historically faced discrimination in Japanese society.

There is also an alternative hypothesis suggesting that Yakuza are descendants of legitimate organizations of _tekiya_, or peddlers of shady or stolen goods, whose leaders were even allowed to carry swords (when that was illegal for most people following the Meiji Restoration). Those groups, though, were often associated with less legitimate organizations of gamblers.

Yakuza has existed since the 19th century, but the real rise of the Yakuza happened after World War II. Japan had lost the war, and one of the nasty little secrets of the war had been the Imperial military jacking up the _senrin_ with methamphetamine. When the military had collapsed, it left behind a Mt. Fuji size stockpile of meth. Yakuza seized it, and began trading on it. The Super Serum intended for military use then spread to the civilians, and while it _did_ certainly aid on reconstruction of Japan so quickly after the WWII, it also caused a widespread meth addiction epidemic among the Japanese. Yakuza made good money on the illicit drug trade, and it still today controls the Japanese drug market. Unsurprisingly, methamphetamine is the most popular drug in Japan.

The name "_yakuza_" came from a traditional Japanese card game called _Oicho-Kabu_, which is esimilar to Baccarat. Like it, the goal of the game is to reach a total of 9, the last digit of any total over 10 makes your hand. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  Having two of the same card makes it the card number. <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  The worst hand you can get in the game is an eight, a nine and a three, totalling 20 = 0. 8-9-3 is expressed as "ya-ku-za" phonetically in Japanese.

Please note that real Yakuza never actually use the term "Yakuza", but prefer more romantic kennings like _Gokudo_ (the outermost path) or _Ninkyo dantai_ (chivalrous society), tying into the romanticized view of the Yakuza.

Yakuza are also commonly associated with _uyoku dantai_ groups (basically Japan's nationalist right wing militia fanatics), and are commonly accused of doing so in order to camouflage their criminal activities behind a political ideology, which would be protected speech. Some Yakuza groups have close ties with _uyoku dantai_, and a few have even adopted the ideology for real and dropped their criminal activities.

Yakuza resemble The Mafia in that they are very organized crime syndicates, with strict codes of behavior and etiquette, and encompass many levels of ritual and formality. Like their Western counterparts, they derive most of their profit from extortion, Protection Racket, drug trafficking, and the like. They like to maintain that they provide a service to the community, which in return owes them both respect and money. But unlike the Mafia or the Chinese Triads, Yakuza are not secret societies. They often operate openly, even so far as to maintain offices and carry business cards. And their strict code of honor and dedication (at least superficially) to "protecting the community" means that they're often an accepted part of Japanese society, and even the police will leave them alone as long as they don't carry guns, deal in drugs, or harass the tourists (which the honor code doesn't allow anyway). They even police their own territories and deal with street-level crime, as such crime would reflect _very_ badly on the local boss (or _oyabun_) and be seen as a sign of weakness. As humorist Dave Barry put it, nothing in Japan can be disorganized — not even the crime.

As the Yakuza benefit from a degree of legitimacy and transparency, they are not often very active outside of Japan, unlike many crime syndicates. They do have footholds in other parts of the Pacific and even mainland Asia, but they operate outside of their home turf largely through proxies and alliances, seldom firsthand or alone. Where the average mafioso or triad with sufficient violence and ambition can set up shop anywhere with a large enough presence of their ethnic group, the Yakuza are dependent on the societal acceptance and official status they are granted in their hometowns to operate at full capacity. The Yakuza succeeds largely through strictly regulated codes of behavior and agreements that keep them from upsetting the general public or drawing the attention of police and government officials, preferring to profit from shady but legitimate or quasi-illicit activity and keeping their actual "crime" as quiet and subtle as possible. Operating in another country without the tacit tolerance of the authorities presents significant difficulties for the Yakuza.

The stereotypical Yakuza character matches the real-world profile fairly closely. He is heavily tattooed, a trait so identified with delinquency that many bathhouses in Japan will forbid people with tattoos on the premises. He's Always Male, as female Yakuza are very rare in the male-dominated Japanese society. If you see a woman in a Yakuza clan, she's either a Miss Kitty in charge of the clan's prostitution deals, a Dragon Lady (in the rare cases when she works directly with the other male members), the boss's daughter or the boss's consort, known as "_ane_" (Japanese for big sister). He wears an expensive suit and dark sunglasses, and he walks with a distinctive swagger that announces his profession. While he claims a benign interest in the community, he's also likely to be as violent and destructive as his Western counterpart, especially if he feels he is not receiving the respect he deserves — but this combination of honor and violence allows some works to ascribe Samurai traits to him. And he may be missing a finger, either as a punishment or as a loyalty test, a trait so associated with the Yakuza that it's a big reason you rarely see Four-Fingered Hands in Japanese media. In this sense, the Yakuza can be seen as somewhere in between the finesse of the classic Italian mafioso and the brutality of the Russian bratva. Gun laws are extremely strict in Japan, so while a clan will certainly have _access_ to firearms, they rarely carry or use them. Knives are more common, but since bladed weapons also carry the legal implication of premeditated violence, many Yakuza will use non-weapons, such as bats, martial arts weapons, such as bokken and shinai, or traditional weapons with collector/artistic value to fight or do harm, as such implements have plausible deniability as weapons. Besides the legal loopholes, these weapons also add to the traditional and honorable aesthetic Yakuza fiction strives for.

Yakuza are so prominent in Japanese culture that they have spawned an entire genre of films which are as distinct from Western gangster films as the Yakuza are from Western gangsters. While many of these films are little-known in the West, movies like _Tokyo Drifter_ and _Battles Without Honor and Humanity_ pioneered many tropes that Western audiences have since come to associate with martial arts and action pictures, and their influence can be detected in productions as diverse as _Kill Bill_ and _Cowboy Bebop_. Yakuza also appear quite often in Cyberpunk fiction, if only because Japan Takes Over the World is typical of the genre.

The Yakuza have been on a rapid decline in recent years. Laws directly and regulations indirectly targeting Yakuza groups have become increasingly strict since the 90's, public opinion of their image has suffered and their membership has begun to dwindle, with informal organized crime and unaffiliated white collar crime filling the vacuum. Some in law enforcement worry about the impact that the death of the Yakuza may have on Japan, as for better or worse the Yakuza have kept gun violence, street crime and drug trafficking low in the country, and are often the only obstacle for aggressive street gangs running wild and Ruthless Foreign Gangsters setting up shop, with some Yakuza clans even taking pains to protect Japan's lucrative tourism industry, which these international syndicates target with ruthless abandon. As the Yakuza are relatively legitimate and strictly regulated, it is surprisingly easy for police to monitor their activity, and groups will even cooperate with police (if only to sell them a patsy or cut a deal) to come up with solutions for crimes that demand retribution. Compared to gangs and syndicates with less established relationships with the authorities, the Yakuza can be argued as the Lesser of Two Evils, and since much of their business revolves around moneylending, sexwork and controlling other criminals, the victims of their violence are often considered Acceptable Targets by the general public. Were the Yakuza to disappear, some fear that something far worse would fill the void.

In fiction Yakuza members will almost always be ethnically Japanese, but they are not homogenous in real life. As said earlier, many in mainland Japan are of Korean descent. There have also been notable cases of Hāfu, people of mixed Japanese ancestry, joining. Yakuza also have a presence in Okinawa and other Ryukyu Islands, whose people are ethinically different from Japanese and have their own languages and customs. Overseas clans in places like Hawaii and California also often have non-Japanese members.

See also The Mafia (and its Russian cousin The Mafiya), The Irish Mob, The Triads and the Tongs, London Gangster, The Cartel, The Syndicate, Mafia Princess.

If you're looking for the Sega franchise about Yakuza, click here.

___

## Examples:

    open/close all folders 

    Anime and Manga 

-   _Acid Town_ centers around the interactions between several Yakuza gangs and a Chinese "pseudo-yakuza" gang as one of its main plots. Nearly _everyone_ in the story is Yakuza or connected to someone who is, which is part of what makes the setting a Crapsack World.
-   _Akagi_ deals with illegal gambling in post-WWII Japan, Yakuza included.
-   In _Akiba Maid War_, maid cafes are simply fronts for entire Yakuza rings, and the waitresses who work there aren't afraid to do the dirty work against the opposition in order to keep up appearances.
-   Kanzaki in _Beelzebub_ is the second son of the Kanzaki-gumi _oyabun_ or family head. It allows him to abuse the other members with complete impunity while being himself a Japanese delinquent, which the Yakuza generally despise.
-   _Bi no Kyoujin_ is built around this premise, in which the Seme Kabu falls for former Street Urchin turned smuggler Nirasawa, his Uke, and takes him as his henchman. The story notably explores the problems such a relationship would cause in a Yakuza clan where the presence of an "_ane_" (title given to the leader's wife) is a _sine qua non_.
-   In the _Black Jack_ story "Tetsu of the Yamanote Line", the titular Tetsu (a notorious pickpocket) makes the mistake of stealing money from a guy who turns out to be a yakuza member, and the guy's fellow mobsters take the money back and cut Tetsu's fingers off in retaliation.
-   The final arc of the second season of _Black Lagoon_, "Fujiyama Gangsta Paradise," centers around a war between two rival yakuza groups triggered by the death of one of their bosses, a war that Russian mob boss Balalaika wants to use to gain a foothold in the Japanese underworld. The yakuza, as befitting of the show's tendency to play every mafia movie cliche in the book to the hilt, have a code, but unfortunately for them, Balalaika is a Magnificent Bitch and doesn't play by their rules. And then, Rock and Revy meet up with Yukio Washimine, the girl who is about to become the leader of one of these groups... yeah, it doesn't end well.
-   _Bleach_:
    -   7th Squad lieutenant Tetsuzaemon Iba, who is patterned after a yakuza, complete with shades and the tattoo taking up most of his back space.
    -   As president of the Shinigami Man's Association, he seems to have carried this trait over to a degree. Meetings of the association consist of the various male lieutenants wearing similar glasses and leaving their haori draped open across their shoulders.
-   In _Blood+_, Mao Yahana's unseen father is a Yakuza; she steals money from him so she can afford to follow the heroes all over the world.
-   A yakuza group shows up in the anime version of _Bokurano_ since Misumi Tanaka, the local Team Mom and the military's liaison to the kids in the robot, turns out to have Yakuza ties (she was previously married to a mid-ranked Yakuza boss named Ichirou who was murdered some years ago). They mainly play a role in protecting and looking after the kids... in particular Jun Ushiro, who is the son of Ichirou and Misumi, though he doesn't know it at first.
-   _Bungou Stray Dogs_ has the Port Mafia which can be count as one. While never hesitant to crime they have their own strict codes for it, and in-universally is said to be a legal organization.
-   Though it's not openly mentioned, Sei from _Burst Angel_ is implied to be a yakuza leader, or at least a Yakuza Princess.
-   Denji, the main character of _Chainsaw Man_, was condemned to a life of poverty partly because a yakuza group made him pay off his deceased father's debts. On the whole, the series treats the yakuza with little kindness, showing them to be a bunch of stupid, short-sighted thugs with a serious case of Moral Myopia. Even Katana Man, the most dangerous yakuza member, is shown to be a self-deluding spoiled brat who won't acknowledge his grandfather's crimes against Denji.
-   Underneath all of the Science Fiction and Western trappings _Cowboy Bebop_ is essentially a classic Yakuza story, pitting a "noble" yakuza (Spike) against a "nihilist" yakuza (Vicious).
-   The erotic-comedy _Dance Till Tomorrow_ has some pretty funny scenes when the main character discovers his theater troupe is practicing in an office building shared by Yakuza. After accidentally disrespecting their boss, they manage to placate him by offering half-price tickets to their next play. Hilarity Ensues when he shows up with ten other serious looking Yakuzas, scaring the actors so bad most of them forget their lines. While remaining totally stoic during the play, the boss tells them afterward he found it hilarious. So much so that he winds up attending every showing. He later becomes a casual acquaintance of the protagonist, at one point helping him collect debts from people by using his intimidation tactics.
-   Yakuza show up a few times in _Darker than Black_, but mostly just wind up getting beaten senseless in large numbers.
-   _Durarara!!_:
    -   In one episode, the reporter goes to some of them to ask about the strongest man in Ikebukuro, and there's some discussion about how they have business in the area but stay out-of-sight unless the various delinquent wars get so bad that they need to intervene.
    -   One particular Yakuza group, Awakusu-Kai, becomes a lot more prominent in the later Light Novels when Izaya exploits some in-fighting and frames Shizuo for the murder of three of their men. Even more, the pint-sized Yakuza Princess of the clan, Akane Awakusu, strikes up an Inter Generational Friendship with Shizuo.
-   The seme and Fetishized Abuser from Ayano Yamane's _Finder Series_, Ryuuichi Asami, is a yakuza leader. The series also features members of both his group and of rival organizations.
-   In one episode of _Full Metal Panic? Fumoffu_, Sousuke helps strengthen one group, the Mikihara-gumi (whose boss is Ren's dad), against the predations of another group, the Ryujin-kai. By giving them Training from Hell and equipping them with weapons and military-grade powered armor/Bonta-kun replica costumes. Yes, you read that right. For bonus points, Sousuke goes through the training _in his Bonta-kun armor_ (i.e. through most of the episode), with Kaname acting as his "translator".
-   In _Gantz_, two Yakuza are among the first group of hunters.
-   There's a big organization of them, the Jugondou, in _Ga-Rei_. They even have supernatural ties, including connections in...Transylvania?
-   In _The Garden of Sinners_, Shiki Ryougi's father was a Yakuza leader, and as shown in the Distant Finale, Shiki herself has become the new head of the Ryougi family.

-   In _Gintama_, of the Four Devas of Kabuki-cho, Jirochou is the leader of the yakuza. Some of his exchanges with his daughter have the formality and speech patterns seen in yakuza movies.
-   The main character of _Gokusen_ is a schoolteacher whose coworkers do not know she is the granddaughter of a powerful _oyabun_ (yakuza boss).
-   A common feature in _Gokushufudou: The Way of the Househusband_, despite the fact that the eponymous character retired from that life long ago to become, well, a House Husband. He regularly meets acquaintances from rival groups and they all engage in mundane, everyday activities like "trying out new appliances" or "shopping for groceries" as though they were all conducting yakuza business.
-   Given that Section 9 works for Interior Security, yakuza don't make many appearances in _Ghost in the Shell_, usually only in the role of supplying real terrorists with illegal goods. They feature more prominently in _Innocence_, but appear as nothing but a gang of regular thugs.
-   In the final arc of _Great Pretender_, "Wizard of Far East", Makoto starts working for a yakuza group, ostensibly to take them down, but finds himself Becoming the Mask.
-   In one arc of _GTO: The Early Years_, Eikichi and Ryuji accidentally steal and wreck a young yakuza leader's Precious, Precious Car, and are forced to come up with 100 million yen in a day or they'll be given Cement Shoes and tossed into the bay.
-   _Gungrave_ - tale of unrequited romance and mafia "friendship"...and stars an undead cowboy assassin who can only function if filled with blood.
-   The "very nice men" that start the plot of _Hayate the Combat Butler_. Ironically enough, they are more honorable than Hayate's Parents themselves.

-   Feature prominently in _Hinamatsuri_; main character Nitta is an up-and-coming member who joined through their business associations, and thus lacks their traditional experience with violence. Being a comedy series, however, they're played for laughs, along with most everything else.
-   In _Holyland,_ Yuu's Roaring Rampage of Revenge after Shinichi is attacked extends to attacking drug pushers, which leads to one of these telling Masaki to put a lid on Yuu's activities lest the latter wants their attention. Later on, he shows up again to tell Masaki to do something about the teen gangs pushing Shiromon / True before the adults have to get involved.
-   _Ichi the Killer_: Just about every character; the majority are actively in an organization, others are either ex-yakuza or had/have some other 'professional' connection with them.
-   Otaha of _Karas_ was a yakuza enforcer before he got killed and turned into Karas.
-   In _Kasei Yakyoku_, the male lead Taka Itou, his younger brother Saburou and a kid named Junichirou Uchida (the brother of one of Taka's love interests) are involved with the Yakuza of The Roaring '20s, though not entirely by choice. Taka's boss is seen on-screen, and he's a brutal Yakuza whose only sort-of soft spot is for his daughter Nami, despite having killed _his own wife_ when she tried to cheat on him by basically raping a teenaged Taka.
-   The mage clans in the Anime version of _Kaze no Stigma_ are depicted using yakuza tropes with _oyabun_ (bosses), princesses and intergenerational conflict over clan succession. It's an example of tropes as easily recognizable cultural shorthand.
-   The seme in Kazuma Kodaka's _Kizuna,_ Kei Enjouji, is the Heroic Bastard of a Yakuza boss and has the _perfect_ Yakuza looks except for the tattoo. Enjouji himself didn't know about this until his mother died and he got a letter telling him the truth. His heritage bites him _badly_ once when some mooks run over his uke, Ranmaru, when they were actually trying to kill Enjouji and Ranmaru pulled a Diving Save for him.
    -   For worse, one of Kei's rivals for Ranmaru's love is his half-brother Kai Sagano, the legitimate heir to their Yakuza clan. And then he starts falling for his bodyguard, a rather badass Yakuza guy named Masanori Araki, who has been his caretaker ever since Kai was a child. Your mileage will HEAVILY vary on his being Squick or not.
-   _Kochikame_: Goshogawara is the boss of a family of Yakuza who don't do anything. Well, they do look out for _Sailor Moon_ collectibles for their boss.
-   There are two Yakuza girls in _Kujibiki♡Unbalance_ and while one is a rough tomboy cardshark, the other is an ojou Kid Samurai with a katana.
-   _The Kurosagi Corpse Delivery Service_:
    -   Sasayama looks like a yakuza stereotype come alive, what with his Face of a Thug, crude language, pinstripe suit, missing leg, Bald of Evil and very visible head-scar, and frightens the whole crew into submission on his first appearance by making them think their latest client had mob ties. He's actually a former police detective (as readers of _MPD Psycho_ would know) forced into retirement by the loss of his leg and currently a social worker. More entertainingly, his cousin looks practically identical to him despite having entered a completely different line of business, which makes Numata snark that peg-legs must be a family trait.
    -   The crew disrupt an actual yakuza operation in volume 6: The yakuza run an operation around providing people's dead relatives a post-mortem marriage, leading to said dead relatives' ghosts seeking out and killing the 'partners' provided to them by the yakuza through a marriage shrine. In the end, the _oyabun_ of the gang suffers a Karmic Death courtesy of the same shrine.
-   _Love Mode_: Reiji Aoi is tall, dark, and, at least once, mistaken for yakuza. The fact that his business include a variety of shady businesses probably doesn't help matters much.
-   Yakuza-apparent are mooks in the _Mai-HiME Destiny_ light novel series.
-   About half the main cast of _My Bride is a Mermaid_, including the heroine, are yakuza mermaids. Being a light comedy, they're played positively enough to be samurai-ish; they have a few swordspersons around, and San uses a Japanese pun to riff on 'chivalry'. They never do anything Yakuza-ish because they're too busy screwing up Nagasumi's life.
-   _My Hero Academia_: The Shie Hassaikai is apparently one of the last few surviving Yakuza groups in Japan since the rise of All Might and other heroes, during which the Yakuza were declared villains. Not only had Magne never even seen one before Overhaul, but Toga didn't even _know_ what a Yakuza is. When Mr. Compress explains that "\[Overhaul is\] an endangered species left over from old times", Overhaul says he isn't wrong. While he attempted to rid society of Quirks and the so-called "Hero Syndrome", his true goal was to bring the Yakuza back to its former glory for the man who brought him into the group.
-   _Naruto_:
    -   The frog summons have a Yakuza theme going on, starting with their names. Gamabunta is named after Bunta Sugawara, best known for starring in the yakuza series _Battles Without Honor and Humanity_, while Fukasaku is named after Kinji Fukasaku, director of the first eight films of the series. Gamaken is named after Ken Takakura, who was considered something of a rival to Sugawara when they were alive. Gamahiro and Shima are both named after Hiroshima, whose dialect is stereotypically used by Yakuza in popular culture. In addition, Gamabunta speaks in the Hiroshima dialect and has the mannerisms of a Yakuza.
    -   In the main series' High School AU ending and its OVA _Shippu Konoha Gakuen Den_, New Transfer Student Naruto's goal is to become the yakuza leader of all of Japan.
-   They make an appearance in Chapter 7 of _Neko-de Gomen!_.
-   In _Nisekoi_, the central plot is kicked off when the yakuza group run by Raku Ichijou's father gets into a turf war with an incoming Mafia family, which goes to a truce when he's declared the boyfriend of the Mafia Princess daughter of the rival family, Chitoge Kirisaki. Naturally, the two can't stand each other, but they agree to maintain the facade because neither wants to see gang warfare. Just as naturally, they start falling for each other for real. Some moments analyze how the mafia and the yakuza differ, such as how openly each operates and how acceptable the concept is in Japan versus other parts of the world.
-   Somuku Kanou in _Okane ga Nai_ runs a yakuza-approved Loan Shark business in Shinjuku.
-   _One Piece_:
    -   Some pirate crews in this setting show parallels with the Yakuza: use of familial terms like "Big Bro", tattoos, an initiation ceremony involving drinking sake, and so on. Johnny and Yosaku, who _aren't_ pirates, fit the Yakuza member stereotype even better.
    -   In _God's Present to the Future_ from _Wanted! (1998)_, Bran, at one point, come across some yakuza guys walking down the street, from whom he pickpockets a pistol he'll use later. They're depicted in the stereotypical way, one of them even has a bokuto (wooden sword) across the shoulder.
-   Ritsu Kasanoda of _Ouran High School Host Club_ is apparently a young yakuza boss. Also in the episode introducing Renge, she drags two students that are of Yakuza families to play the role of baddies in her elaborate movie of the Host Club.
-   In the _Paranoia Agent_ episode "A Man's Path", a corrupt policeman goes to desperate lengths to pay his debts to the Yakuza.
-   In _Parasyte_, Gotou makes his debut in the series by massacring a local Yakuza clan in brutal and one-sided fashion, simply to test his capabilities against a large group armed with blades and firearms.
-   Kagetora from _Psyren_ is a yakuza, from the outfit to the sunglasses to the manner of speech. Rather than tattoos, his body is heavily scarred from fighting.
-   _Puella Magi Madoka Magica_ has the publicity finally backfire on a Yakuza group: Homura Akemi, the show's resident badass, apparently has no problem locating their headquarters and uses her Time Stands Still power to walk right in and pilfer a bunch of pistols, shotguns and ammunition for her witch-killing needs.
-   _Reborn! (2004)_: Although taking place in Japan, they originate in Italy.<sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  However, shortly after Dino's introduced they pretend Tsuna's been kidnapped by a Yakuza gang, and the name Reborn gives Gokudera and Yamamoto is a real Yakuza... who the two proceed to beat up looking for their boss ("What'd you do with Jyudaime?!")
-   In _Saint Young Men_, Jesus befriends a large group of Yakuza members, partially due to their belief that he's secretly a Yakuza prince (after he mentioned that he was crucified by the authorities and got out by the will of his father). Of course, his influence brings out the best in them. He's Jesus. Befriending outcasts and criminals is just what he does.
-   Similarly, in _Sakura Gari_ (which also takes places in Tokyo of The Roaring '20s), the Yakuza forcibly recruit Masataka's beloved older brother Takafumi and get him to be in debt with them. Masataka's handsome boss Souma offers to pay for it, but only if Masataka becomes his lover. While Souma _does_ pay up, Takafumi dies when he is tortured in police custody.
-   The mythical permutation of Yakuza is seen in a _Yojimbo_ inspired episode of _Samurai Champloo_, in which one Yakuza family is presented as being run by a kindly and benevolent patriarch who created the organization to be a refuge for social outcasts. On the other hand, the opposing group were common thugs, and this type of Yakuza sometimes shows up as the villain of the episode (i.e. the sex slavery ring was implicitly run by them, given the reference to one mook losing a finger if guilty of further incompetence).
-   _Sanctuary_ combines Yakuza with the Government Procedural, with its two Magnificent Bastard heroes — an up-and-coming Yakuza leader and a junior member of the Japanese parliament — working together to remake Japanese society from the top down _and_ bottom up.
-   In _Sayonara, Zetsubou-Sensei_, one of the teachers at the school is shown to have a Yakuza tattoo on his back, which freaks the protagonist teacher out. One episode shows the main characters trying to avoid being caught doing something embarrassing which can be photographed and used to shame them... but said teacher is shown having the ability to deftly avoid any camera which tries to photograph him.
-   _ST☆R: Strike it Rich_: Hana is the head of the Jinguuji group, an independent group of Yakuza. Unfortunately, it is already one of the weakest ones and it is losing members, so she struggles to make money.
-   The family that the protagonist of _Stop Hibari Kun_ goes to live with after his mother dies is a yakuza family.
-   In _Tekkonkinkreet_, the yakuza act as unwelcome agents of change in Treasure Town.
-   All of _Tokyo Crazy Paradise_ is _centered_ around the Yakuza- more specifically their young leader Ryuji and his female bodyguard Tsukasa.
-   In _Tokyo Shinobi Squad_, yakuza often terrorize entire neighborhoods in order to take over the land and renovate it into upscale shopping centers for personal profit at the expense of the local businesses and the people living there. Jin exterminates a group who wanted to blow up an arcade he frequents.
-   Episode 7 of _Trapeze_ deals with a yakuza member who has a phobia of sharp objects and eventually starts wearing ski goggles to protect his eyes.
-   _The Voynich Hotel_:
    -   One of the guests is an ex-Yakuza named Taizou Kuzuki, who becomes involved with the Ninja Maid Helena. By his own admission he wasn't exactly a high-ranked member, though he does have _irizumi_ tattoos on his shoulders and upper back. Later in the series, Kuzuki's Dark and Troubled Past catches up with him... in the form of the _yakuza_ from his former group, who come to claim the huge sum of money he stole from them before escaping. They brutally torture him, and even brag about having not just killed his brother (who was planning on leaving the group with Taizou) but having his back tattoos flayed off and displayed on the wall of their headquarters. Helena is... unhappy when she shows up and sees what's happened. Amusingly enough, his tattoos convey his strength within the group with RPG Elements; apparently his big brother was special enough to have a magic resistance rating.
    -   Towards the end, Mamiya's Little Miss Badass younger sister kills everyone in the headquarters of Kuzuki's yakuza group, believing that, after hiring them to kill Taizou, they double-crossed them and got Mamiya killed.
-   The Haguro family from _Wolf Guy - Wolfen Crest._ The son of the leader, Haguro Dou, is the Big Bad, and towards the end he gathers a group of them so they can "help" him violently gangrape Aoshika, triggering Inugami's Roaring Rampage of Rescue.
-   _Yakitate!! Japan_ has a baking battle to determine the successor to a Yakuza family.
-   In _YuYu Hakusho_, Yusuke's mom, Atsuko Urameshi, has some kind of... _connections_, shall we say... with the local yakuza. Specifically, she gets her buddies to intimidate Yusuke's principal into letting him back into school after he comes back to life. The anime version Bowdlerised this away, solely mentioning that Atsuko and some "friends" had something to do with it.

    Comic Books 

-   In the Dark Knight Universe, the Joker was apparently a member (or at the very least bears a tattoo of a large red dragon on his back), as opposed to his usual depiction as having mafia ties. Probably because we already knew about Gotham's mafia (pretty much ripped from _The Godfather_), and the Joker had to be a wild card. (Hence the name.)
    -   The Yakuza are one of the many crime factions in Gotham City in the main DCU.
-   They have grown into almost a symbiotic relationship with the Judges of Hondo Cit in Judge Dredd, both hating but ultimately having to relay on the other.
-   The King of Hell's Kitchen has a yakuza group hopped on MGH trying to take Hell's Kitchen for them after the fall of the Kingpin. In this story, the Yakuza are played like a bunch of greedy thugs with tattoos and katanas. Daredevil wasn't amused.
-   The Yakuza exist in the Marvel Universe, but just as the Mafia takes a backseat to the Maggia so too does the Yakuza take a backseat to fictional Japanese underworld groups such as Clan Yashida and The Hand. The most prominent Yakuza members in the MU are members of Clan Yashida, and unsurprisingly they usually clash with Wolverine.
-   In _Nikolai Dante_, just as mafiya families reinstated Imperial Russia, so a yakuza network known as Black Dragon took over Japan and most of the Pacific Rim. They were a significant threat to Russia, until much of their territory was destroyed in a catastrophe that Tsar Vladimir totally had nothing to do with, honest.

    Fan Fiction 

-   _Megami no Hanabira_: The Yakuza appear as the Chaos-aligned faction in the story, lead by a man of undisclosed rank named Shusui Naito. Their aim is to spread the Demon Summoning Program outside the city for the sake of empowering the underclass as part of a deranged, White Guilt\-ridden scheme by their leader.
-   _Digimon: Children of Time_: As revealed in _Children of the Present_, Ryo Akiyama is the heir to a yakuza group, and Rika's grandmother Seiko was once a mob wife.
-   In _Kyon: Big Damn Hero_ the Organization is funded mainly by this, and also it's the background of Tsuruya's family.
-   _The Prince_ by Neverending Odyssey is a _Death Note_ AU where Light Yagami is kidnapped by the Yakuza when he's eleven years old and this harsher upbringing ironically results in him being much more merciful and careful when he adopts his Kira persona.
-   In _Hetalia: Axis Powers_ Dark Fics, it's not uncommon to have Kiku aka Japan directly involved with the Yakuza. ... Uhm.
-   In _893_ Harry Potter is raised by the Yakuza and so becomes a very independent, badass Professional Killer.
-   In _Neon Metathesis Evangelion_, the local yakuza begins to beat down whatever NERV employee they can find in the seedier parts of town in order to teach NERV a lesson about their arrogance after Toji is injured while piloting an Evangelion, which his father the local _oyabun_ took personally.
-   Jokingly referenced at one point in _Doing It Right This Time_, when Hikari's father makes a comment about Toji's dad "...missing a suspicious number of fingers", to which Hikari rather crossly retorts that the man is actually a carpenter who injured his hand in a workplace accident.
-   In _Ranma Saotome, Chi Master_, Qiáng Wang manages to gain control over a yakuza group based out of an area close to Nerima by killing its leader.
-   _The Horsewomen Of Las Vegas_ features the Yakuza as one of the crime organizations in the story. They are run by Antonio Inoki in the story, but he does not appear. Instead, the Yakuza are represented by two of his top, personally-trained capos, Asuka and Shinsuke Nakamura.

    Film — Animated 

-   _Isle of Dogs_: One of the groups in on the Kobayashi conspiracy is the local yakuza, in charge of public opinion via intimidation and misinformation. The mayor is also shown to have yakuza tattoos.

    Film — Live-Action 

-   _Avengers: Endgame_ has Clint Barton (now going by The Ronin) kill several of these right before Black Widow recruits him.
-   _Bullet Train_ features a number of Yakuza characters, with the biggest threat being the Russian leader of a Japanese crime family.
-   Pretty much every single Japanese character in _The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift_.
-   The Bride goes after O-Ren Ishii, the queen of the Yakuza, and her personal army, the Crazy 88, in _Kill Bill Part 1_. The Yakuza also feature heavily in O-Ren's tragic Backstory, with Boss Matsumoto and his men, who killed O-Ren's parents when she was just a little girl which prompts her rise as the Lady of War boss we meet.
-   In _Crows Zero_, the father of the protagonist Takaya Genji is a powerful Yakuza boss. Genji later befriends Katagiri Ken, a lowlife in a rival Yakuza organization.
-   Many of Takashi Miike's films are about Yakuza, including _Ichi the Killer_ and _Gozu_.
-   _Black Rain_. The protagonist is a New York City cop who catches the renegade Yakuza Sato, but then has to recapture him once Sato escapes custody in Osaka. Along the way he makes a deal with Sato's main rival, a much more traditional, old-school _oyabun_ named Sugai, to take him down, and Sugai makes a point of shaming Sato's dishonorable behavior.
-   _The Yakuza_. Right there in the title.
-   _Yojimbo_'s plot is centered on a gang war between two opposing factions of crime families in a dying town, each one backing a local businessman to become mayor and hoping to hire the titular hero's services. Notably, the term "yakuza" is never spoken aloud, with most characters preferring to use the term "gambler," since the crime families originally fought over control of the town's lucrative gambling trade. It's not a very glamourous take; the vice they trade in looks every bit as cheap and tawdry as it is and most of them are just greedy, cowardly weaklings who can't even muster up the will and bravery to properly have a brawl in the street until one family's Ax-Crazy leader shows up with a revolver he got while travelling. Some of the first and last events of the film are a local farmer's son running away to try to have a short and exciting life of adventure and luxury as a criminal, and him being the only yakuza the hero spares when he slaughters the remaining henchmen in the finale, gruffly telling him a long, boring life of growing food is better than what lies in front of him.
-   A lot of Takeshi Kitano's movies feature him playing a yakuza, including _Sonatine_, _Boiling Point 1990_, _Kikujiro_, _Brother_, and _Outrage_.
-   _Battles Without Honor and Humanity_ deconstructs Yakuza films in a particularly brutal way by telling the story of post-war Yakuza betraying everyone and everything for money and power. It also memorably depicts many of the traditions of the Yakuza in a less than favorable light; for example, the traditional pinky sacrifice turns into a pinky tug-of-war with a chicken.
-   The _Nihon No Don_, in sharp contrast to the _Battles_ series, places the _yakuza_ in a much more corporate post-war atmosphere through a historical epic-style lens in a similar vein to the _The Godfather_. That being said the betrayals, double-crosses and honorable facades from the _Battles_ films remain and are emphasized with political jockeying and high-level corruption thrown into the mix, in a way mirroring what the Real Life _yakuza_ syndicates had become by the 70s.
-   The Iron Claw Yakuza clan from the Dolph Lundgren film _Showdown in Little Tokyo_, led by evil Yakuza boss Yoshida, who murdered Kenner's parents long ago.
-   _Johnny Mnemonic_, based on the William Gibson short story, features the Yakuza as the primary antagonist, seeking the information stuck in Johnny's head. Takeshi Kitano slums as a Yakuza bigwig in the film.
-   _Predators_ has a Yakuza member among its cast who is mute through most of the film - not because of not speaking English, but because he already lost two fingers for talking too much.
-   _The Street Fighter_ and its sequels portray the Yakuza as the main villains.
-   _War (2007)_ features the Yakuza fighting the Triads in San Francisco.
-   In _The Punisher (1989)_, the title character has killed off so many Mafia members the Yakuza is able to take control. They return as a faction in _Punisher: War Zone_.
-   Seijun Suzuki made several increasingly surreal, stylish, over-the-top yakuza films in the 1960s, films that started semi-normal and eventually got so weird that Suzuki was fired.
    -   _Detective Bureau 2-3: Go to Hell Bastards!_: Possibly the most normal one Suzuki made despite the bizarre title. A private detective infiltrates a yakuza gang and winds up successfully taking down all the yakuza in the neighborhood, for no other reason that he really doesn't like yakuza.
    -   _Youth of the Beast_: A hoodlum named Jo gets himself hired as an enforcer by a yakuza gang. He's actually a disgraced ex-cop, who believes that someone in the gang killed his old partner. Jo is determined to get revenge.
    -   _Tokyo Drifter_: A young Yakuza, cut adrift when his _oyabun_ retires, wanders Japan before he's forced to return to Tokyo to settle affairs with his old boss and their rivals.
    -   _Branded to Kill_: The #3 killer in Japan botches a job and becomes a target for #1 in this highly stylized film.
-   _The World of Kanako_: At one point, main protagonist Akikazu gets abducted by the Yakuza who are looking for Kanako because she and Matsunaga have been causing lots of trouble with their blackmailings of child molesters. They present Matsunaga who is kept in a body bag, sliced up but still alive. On realizing that Akikazu seems to want Kanako dead too, they give him the name of the person who was ordered to kill Nagano (= Detective Aikawa).
-   _A Colt is My Passport_ is a 1967 Japanese film about a Yakuza hit man who is betrayed by the leader of his gang after carrying out a job to assassinate the leader's rival.
-   In _Taxi 2_, the protagonists have to liberate a Japanese state secretary and a policewoman who is the girlfriend of one of the heroes from a Yakuza gang. Commissaire Gibert briefly refers to them as "Jacuzzis".
-   _Pigs and Battleships_ is about a rather penny-ante, small potatoes yakuza gang. Interestingly, unlike most films in this genre that generally portray the yakuza as cool and badass, in this one they're bumbling Stupid Crooks.
-   _Lost Girls and Love Hotels_: Kazu is a Yakuza member, and has the tattoos of his clan over his torso.
-   _Walk Cheerfully_ might be the earliest example, being a 1930 film about a yakuza hoodlum who decides to go straight to win the love of a virginal good girl.
-   In _Kate_ the protagonist is hired to assassinate a yakuza target. The yakuza's counterstrike leaves her with only 24 hours to live, during which she declares war on the rest of their organization.
-   _Yakuza Apocalypse_: Genyo Kamiura is a vampire in charge of a Yakuza that's been protecting a small neighbourhood. Nobody knows he's a vampire, though.
-   _Jirocho Fuji_ is a Very Loosely Based on a True Story portrait of a Real Life 19th century yakuza. Jirocho and his men are affable Neighborhood-Friendly Gangsters who fight turf wars with other gangs but make it a point to not hurt "straight people", and don't even seem to do anything criminal other than run gambling dens.

    Literature 

-   William Gibson's Sprawl Trilogy contains many references to the Yakuza, which has become a major international force. In "Johnny Mnemonic", the Yakuza send a vat-grown cyborg assassin to kill the main character.
-   The Yakuza are one of the main antagonists of Ragnarök, the sequel to _Valhalla_.
-   In Charles de Lint's cyberpunk novel _Svaha_, the Yakuza (or, to use in-universe slang, the "yaks") are the primary antagonists — in Canada.
-   In the Choose Your Own Adventure book _Mystery of Ura Senke_, the case's MacGuffin <sup>note&nbsp;</sup>  is sought by **many** people and groups in Tokyo. One of these associations is the Yakuza, and in one of the sub-plots the Featureless Protagonist might be kidnapped by them while playing the Kid Detective role. Whether s/he gets out of their influence sphere alive, again depends on the reader's decisions.
-   Mentioned in _Snow Crash_. As part of his sales pitch, a Mafia recruiter points out that the Yakuza is often called the Japanese Mafia, but the Mafia is never called the Italian Yakuza.
-   Time Scout's _The Syndicate_ is composed of The Mafia, The Mafiya, and these guys. Their control of Japanese construction made them, effectively, the most powerful people in Japan. They even show up as tourists on the Time Terminal, occasionally.
-   In _The Man with the Red Tattoo_, James Bond has to deal with a Japanese nationalist terrorist who is a "Dark Lord" of the fictional Ryujin-kai yakuza gang.
-   Japanese Yakuza appear in military thriller _Victoria_. Though they do not play a major role in the story, protagonist John Rumford interacts with them during his mission to Imperial Japan, and they assist him with his "demonstration" viz. the Chinese. The main representative he deals with displays most of the associated stereotypes.
-   _Machine of Death_: "Improperly Prepared Blowfish" is set entirely in a Yakuza office. The characters are an _oyabun_ (boss), his two subordinates who have a Senpai-Kohai (senior-junior) relationship, and the _oyabun_'s mistress.
-   _Technomancer_ by MK Gibson: Have managed to survive to the 23rd century by becoming the Techkuza. They're basically magical samurai cyborg gangsters.
-   _The Witch of Knightcharm_: Megumi's parents were abused and functionally enslaved by Yakuza, which motivates her to join an evil Wizarding School and learn The Dark Arts so she can get strong enough to kill the gangsters and free them.
-   _Yakuza My Brother_ by Yaakov Raz is a fictionalised account of the time the author, an anthropologist, spent with the Kyokuto-kai Yakuza family during the '80s and early '90s.

    Live-Action TV 

-   _The Daily Show_ interviewed Jake Adelstein (he was also interviewed by _60 Minutes_), a reporter who wrote a book about a particular Yakuza boss who was able to secure a visa to get into the US and receive a liver transplant, and then got livers for some of his friends. His story was made into the ongoing HBO series _Tokyo Vice_.
-   An episode of _CSI: Miami_ revolves around the Yakuza, but for some reason insists on never using the word and instead referring to them as "Sakiru." This is the _least_ of the errors in the episode.
-   The _Law & Order_ episode "Gaijin" involves a murder committed in New York City by the Yakuza.
-   The _Leverage_ team inadvertently ends up having to con the Yakuza when they try to shut down a sweatshop in "The Runway Job."
-   A _Time Trax_ episode deals with the Yakuza. Darien's first run-in with them results in one of the Yakuza cutting off his own finger as punishment for failure.
-   _Deadliest Warrior_ had the golden age Mafia \[1920s\] fight against the golden age Yakuza \[post World War II\]. The Yakuza lost, however.
-   The Body of the Week on one episode of _Quincy, M.E._ was an LAPD detective investigating a Yakuza group that was working out a gun buy from The Mafia. Said detective was stabbed in the heart with a tanto (a dagger shaped like a miniature katana). As luck would have it, Quincy's Japanese-American assistant Sam Fujiwara knew some people...
-   A very, _very_ Too Dumb to Live Yakuza boss is featured as the Asshole Victim in a _1000 Ways to Die_ segment. Basically, he performed an improvised Yubitsume on a bad karaoke singer and swallowed it whole, therefore he chokes on it... and dies when his even dumber bodyguard performs a Heimlich maneuver incorrectly on him.
-   In the J-Drama version of _Boys over Flowers_, Akira Mimasaka's family is related to the Yakuza.
-   On one episode of the Israeli sitcom _HaPijamot_, the Local Hangout owner is extorted by a Yakuza member. The whole situation is Played for Laughs: the man extorting him comes in wearing stereotypical Ninja clothing and says nothing but ‘Yakuza!’ when notifying the owner of the extortion with a note, and it turns out he’s actually the man dating the main female lead, Suzuki<sup>note&nbsp;</sup> , who doesn’t speak a word of Hebrew and communicates via impromptu origami.
-   _Hawaii Five-0_: The Yakuza control many of the corrupt cops the team runs into, as well as the corrupt governor, and blew up the car Steve's Mother "died" in. Adam, Kono's love interest, is the son of a Yakuza leader and was targeted when he tried to clean up his family's business and killed his brother who was trying to kill Kono.
-   _Daredevil_ has Nobu, a Japanese crime boss as part of Wilson Fisk's empire. In season two they show up again when Elektra has Murdock investigate the dealing her father's company is involved in. They end up finding that the organization is not the Yakuza but in reality the Marvel Cinematic Universe's version of the Hand, a Ninja clan. _Iron Fist_ and _The Defenders_ reveal that there are more factions to the Hand other than the Japanese one.
-   _Giri/Haji_ is all about the relationship between the Yakuza (who are portrayed as both noble and corrupt, often simultaneously) in both Tokyo and London, other mobs, and civilians.
-   _Oshin_ has examples of both noble Yakuza and corrupt Yakuza:
    -   Oshin's friend and Hopeless Suitor Ken is portrayed as quite the noble Yakuza who helps out the main protagonist when she tries to establish herself in Tokyo.
    -   When Oshin and her best friend Kayo work in an eatery and begin selling sake in it, the local Yakuza feel threatened and try to kick them out. Thanks to her deals with Ken, however, Oshin manages to win them over to her cause.
-   The _MacGyver_ episode "Log Jam" involves MacGyver going undercover in a logging company in the Pacific Northwest, whose owners are being forced by Yakuza gangsters to illegally log protected forest land so they can sell the logs for outrageous profit back in Japan.
-   In an episode of _Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles_, the Connors came up against a group of fake Yakuza as part of a complex attempt to con them out of a large sum of money. The "yakuza" quickly admitted to being fake as soon as they discovered what the Connors were willing and able to do to get their money back.
-   _The Man in the High Castle_: Given the Japanese control over the Western US, it's not surprising to learn the Yakuza are in control on the illegal side of things. Even the feared Japanese military police don't usually cross them, since they have connections in high places.
-   On _Schitt's Creek_ one of Alexis's wild adventures apparently involved the Yakuza. When Ted remarks that she can't go for a run in her high heels, she replies:

_"Tell that to me at 21 escaping the Yakuza!"_

-   _S.W.A.T. (2017)_: "Ekitai Rashku" sees the team extraditing a Yakuza clan gangster back to Japan then, once he's busted out of custody by his cohorts, aiding the Tokyo Police in getting him back.
-   _Giri/Haji_ is about a detective who follows his ex-yakuza brother to London in hopes of stopping a gang war between the yakuza clans of Tokyo.
-   _Deputy_: "10-8 Paperwork" has the main villain as a Japanese-American gangster connected with crime syndicates both in the US and Japan. Though the Yakuza is not specifically named, he has their telltale tattoos showing from under his shirt. He's in the US as the emissary for a deal with a Mexican drug cartel to traffic cocain within the Southwest.

    Music 

-   Japanese Trip-Hop artist _DJ Krush_ was a Yakuza member before beginning his musical career. Actually, he once found a severed finger wrapped in paper on his desk; after discovering that it had belonged to his best friend, he decided to leave.
-   There are persistent rumors that rock/pop/ vocalist GACKT is either a member or somehow in massive debt to the Yakuza.
-   The Yakuza has deep ties to all of the Japanese music industry independent of genre, style, band size, or notoriety. Visual Kei in particular is infested with Yakuza. There are rumors that Japanese hardcore punk band Gism have Yakuza ties and will go after producers of bootleg records and merchandise. Similar rumors exist about Dir en grey.
    -   At least one craft guitar and guitar gear maker, which shall not be named because no one wants to be whacked, but whose clients included a Loudness guitarist, a Loudness and X Japan bassist, and a Nightmare bassist, is operated by a _blatant_ Yakuza member.
-   Though always officially denied, New Age musician Kitaro is rumoured to have connections to the Yakuza, with his fame at least partially being due to their influence. These rumours are, in no small part, due to his first wife being the daughter of a former leader of one of the more influential clans.
-   Youngblood, by 5 Seconds of Summer, has the visual style for the music video (Tattoos, bikes, leather jackets, "gangster" theme, etc.).

    Pinball 

-   Much like the movie it was based on, _Johnny Mnemonic_ has these. They also have their own mode, aptly titled "Yakuza Strike".

    Professional Wrestling 

-   Even although TV stations don't usually refer to him by the Y-word, this is Masahiro Chono's whole gimmick, which some have alleged is not really a gimmick at all, among other things because no yakuza has ever attempted retribution on him for offending or misrepresenting them. Chono is in fact many a yakuza's favorite wrestler for his impeccable dress, speed, agility, and "Yakuza Kick" Finishing Move. Videos of his matches have reportedly been used by correctional officers in an effort to steer violent criminals towards athletics.
-   Yoshiaki Fujiwara likes to style himself as a Yakuza, to the point he founded a promotion named Fujiwara Gumi (_gumi_ being the term commonly used for Yakuza organizations).
-   TARU used to play a Yakuza-style character in his times as the manager of the Crazy MAX stable. Even after he switched to a more occult-influenced character as part of the Voodoo Murders, he has still retained traits, like the tattoos, mannerisms, and well tailored suits whenever not wrestling. Like Chono, though, it's unclear whether this is merely a character or there is something more behind, especially because before becoming a pro wrestler, Taru was a karate master of a brand very popular among real Yakuzas.
-   A master martial artist Masked Luchador working primarily in AULL is known as Yakuza. Frequent seekers of his services include Robin Maravilla, El Psicópata, Rocky Santana, Sadico, Último Gladiador and Terry Dos Mil though given this is lucha libre, they typically want help winning AULL's trios titles, rather than anything typically associated with other Yakuza.
-   In WWE, Yoshihiro Tajiri was given a Yakuza-themed gimmick as part of the Kyo Dai faction in the early 2000s. However, the faction was short-lived because Tajiri feares that the real Yakuza might become insulted by the portrayal and enact legitimate retribution.
-   In Asistencia Asesoría y Administración, Kenzo Suzuki led a stable completely devoted to the theme, the aptly named La Yakuza. The storyline was that Suzuki was being secretly supported by the real life yakuza in order to start a Japanese invasion of AAA, which would take the form of guest Japanese wrestlers showing up as members of the group. The whole angle was short-lived, though (only Takuya Sugi and Go Shiozaki came from Japan to join it), and closed in less than a year.

    Tabletop Games 

-   Unsurprisingly, due to the great degree with which the game was influenced by William Gibson, _Shadowrun_ includes plenty of Yakuza in varying capacities. The fact that the default setting for the game is the West Coast of the former U.S. may be a contributing factor, though. Mitsuhama Computer Technologies is a MegaCorp that started out as a Yakuza money laundering operation but long ago surpassed them.
-   Since _BattleTech_'s Draconis Combine is basically a collection of Japan tropes Recycled In Space, the yakuza are quite naturally alive and well there as well. Several protagonist and important supporting characters are either members themselves or at least maintain connections, and nobody less than Theodore Kurita himself sponsored the creation of several yakuza BattleMech units to help bolster the ranks during his reforms of the Combine's military. They're generally portrayed as being much more honorable and loyal to the Combine than the Warlords who command much of the regular military, and even help protect Theodore from several attempts to overthrow him.
-   In the _Hudson City_ sourcebook for the Hero System, the Yakuza are one of \*many\* organized crime factions active in Hudson City, and not even the most powerful one. Inside the Little Tokyo neighborhood, though, they're not to be crossed.

    Video Games 

-   The _Like a Dragon_ series (or _Ryū ga Gotoku_, 龍が如く, formerly the _Yakuza_ series in the West) is probably the preeminent example of Yakuza in modern video games. Most of the series' playable characters and antagonists, as well as many of its side and supporting characters, either are or affiliated with the Yakuza and the plotlines of the game always principally involve Yakuza groups. In many ways, the series can be seen as a deconstruction of the Yakuza ideal, with Kiryu (and to a lesser extent Kazama) representing and trying to live the romanticized ideal of yakuza being a largely benevolent group and a shield for the people against overbearing rulers, and most of the conflict in the series comes from that ideal running headfirst into the everyday reality of organized crime in the 21st century.
-   Team Rocket in _Pokémon Red and Blue_ and _Gold and Silver_ are an organized crime group that strongly resemble Yakuza. Localizations include additions that make them more Mafia-like, renaming the boss Giovanni; the anime dub further gives Team Rocket's Meowth a New York accent and most of the members gangster-themed names (instead of samurai-themed in the original).
    -   In _Pokémon Sun and Moon_, Team Skull can be seen as wannabe-Yakuza. In _Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon_, the _real_ Yakuza - Team Rainbow Rocket - turn up to cause trouble immediately after Team Skull is disbanded, posing a much greater threat as an organised syndicate made up of all the previous enemy teams in the franchise.
-   _Red Steel_ basically revolves around a Civil War within the least evil Yakuza clan.
-   The Yakuza shows up from time in various _Mafia Wars_ missions.
-   In _Fallout 2_ roving bands of Yakuza can be found around New Reno and will attack the player if provoked. However, they don't appear to closely follow Bushido and will occasionally flee from combat and state it's better to be "a live coward than a dead hero".
-   _Jitsu Squad_ have a stage set in Neon Boulevard, a fictional urban area inspired by Japan's Shinjuku District, which is ruled by the dreaded "Yakuzo" crime gang. The Yakuzo's mooks are even dressed like stereotypical Yakuza gangsters, with tattoos and dark glasses.
-   The Ronin in _Saints Row 2_ are a samurai-themed Japanese-American biker gang (who also recruit locally) that are strongly implied to be backed by a Japan-based Yakuza clan via their leader's _oyabun_ father.
-   _MapleStory_ oddly enough, features bad guys resembling the Yakuza in Zipangu, a Japan themed world. In the original version they were pretty dark, using guns, katanas, and nunchakus to hurt you. The American version replaced those with squeaky hammers and cat mittens.
-   The Gokudou-kai in _Police 911_.
-   In _Rainbow Six: Take-Down Missions in Korea_, a Yakuza gang are orchestrating a series of seemingly unrelated terrorist attacks to cover the expansion of their activities into South Korea.
-   The Yaki pirate faction in the _X-Universe_ are explicitly Yakuza IN SPACE! (Fun fact: the word "yaki" means "many yakuza" in Japanese.)
-   Yakuza feature prominently in _Soldier of Fortune_.
-   Members of the Yakuza play roles in the _Grand Theft Auto_ games, especially in _GTA3_ and _Liberty City Stories_.
-   In _Shin Megami Tensei_, common Yakuza thugs occasionally show up as random encounter enemies, like in _Shin Megami Tensei I_ and the original _Persona_.
    -   The Ashura-kai from _Shin Megami Tensei IV_ are essentially the game's own take on the Yakuza. They provide goods and shelter for civilians, but in exchange they are rarely ever not armed. They also run a human trafficking operation based in a secret facility, drawing their neurotransmitters out by force to use as demon food, and raising children in said facility in order to keep up with demand.
    -   _Raidou Kuzunoha vs. The Soulless Army_ has Satake and the Kantou haguro-gumi, but they're good guys. A bit quick to agitate, but good.
    -   _Persona 3_ has the Kirijo Group, complete with a company-owned High School (that doubled as a Shadow research facility, a (presumably) company-owned hospital capable of holding its patients hostage without raising eyebrows, and access to military-grade weaponry, is either this or a very corrupt and powerful local corporation... And in Japan, there's usually very little to separate the former from the latter. There's also officer Kurosawa's "connections"... Which appear to have no problem giving a police officer access to lethal weaponry to sell off-the-counter to schoolchildren. It's vaguely implied that his 'connections' are Kirijo pulling strings, too.
    -   _Persona 5_ features the Yakuza pretty heavily. The third main target is powerful _oyabun_ Junya Kaneshiro, a greedy sociopath who gleefully blackmails and exploits teenagers, and Corrupt Politician Masayoshi Shido has extensive Yakuza connections, as revealed in the second-to-last Palace. There's also ex-Yakuza Munehisa Iwai, who's both the Hanged Man Arcana Confidant and the team's primary supplier of weapons and armor; despite the gruffness and general shadiness, he's a good man at heart.
-   In _Robopon_, there's Riggs Construction Company. Their formula is as follows—find people, tell them to pony up for protection, blow up the houses of the people that don't pay. Rinse and repeat.
-   In the 2014 Halloween comic for _Team Fortress 2_, Merasmus the magician made deals with the yakuza in order to gain funds for his Carnival of Carnage. He's already lost one finger, though, and thus is very desperate to get his carnival up and running so he can pay them back as soon as possible.
-   Ryuuji Yamazaki from _Fatal Fury_ and _The King of Fighters_ fame is a Yakuza leader, though he lacks the typical tattoos. The Seventh SNK Character Sound Collection states that he entered the Yakuza as a teenager and used to be The Dragon to a powerful _oyabun_ from Okinawa, Sorimachi, who wanted him to be his successor. Sorimachi's death is what pushed the already unstable Yamazaki fully into Ax-Crazy mode.
-   The James Bond video game _NightFire_ features Yakuza as hired henchmen of Raphael Drake, though it does raise the question on how Drake, a Westerner, was able to gain their loyalty. Yakuza appear as the main mooks in the level _Double Cross_ and the first mooks faced in _Phoenix Fire_.
-   The "Eternal Sun", from the 2005 _Punisher_ game, are a Yakuza group encountered in the last third of the story, involved in a Mob War with the Gnucci's, the Russian Mob and The Kingpin.
-   Lo Wang deals with Yakuza quite a bit in the _Shadow Warrior_ series. In the first game (a reboot of the original), they are his primary opponents in the first part of the game before the demons show up, and later show up in Zilla's headquarters having been granted power in the same fashion as Zilla himself and sport glowing eyes. In _Shadow Warrior 2_, they rule the villages and other areas that are not run by Zilla or overrun by demons, and Lo Wang clashes swords with them on more than a few occasions.
-   In _Overwatch_, Hanzo and Genji Shimada were the heirs to a criminal empire as well as being trained ninjas. Hanzo was the elder and the heir apparent while Genji was the younger brother who disassociated with his family's criminal activities, which led to the clan forcing Hanzo to assassinate his brother. Genji survived the attempt thanks to Overwatch and helped bring down the organization.
-   The Yakuza show up as an enemy in _Chaser_. The protagonist is forcibly enlisted by the local Italian mafia to fight them for several levels, until the player manages to wipe out both groups.
-   _PAYDAY 2_ has DLC character Jiro, a former Yakuza assassin who came to America and joined the Payday Gang in search of his son.
-   _A Hat in Time_ has the Nyakuza from the second DLC pack, Nyakuza Metro. As you could've guessed from the name, they're all cats led by "the Empress", a legitimately scary mobster with a front as a legitimate jeweler. Aside from their leadership, they mostly sell Hat Kid fashion and discuss food trucks and the metro's crazy layout. Until the Empress puts a million-dollar bounty on Hat Kid's head, dead or alive. Then they turn out to be not so harmless.
-   _The 25th Ward_ has the Okiai syndicate, which Tsuki, the protagonist of "Matchmaker", was a former member of. Their resurrection after previously being thought to have been abolished by the police is a major plot point.
-   Given that _Binary Domain_ is set in a Cyberpunk future Japan _and_ produced by the same studio behind the _Like a Dragon_ series, it's almost inevitable that the Yakuza would turn up in some fashion. In this case, Beetle Team's infiltration into Upper Tokyo is assisted by a crime boss named Mifune, who controls the black market and vice trades in the ruined slums of Shibuya and supplies the anti-government resistance cells operating there with weapons and equipment.
-   One of the playable protagonists in _World of Horror_ is a low-ranking Yakuza wheelman named Haru, who becomes embroiled in all the freaky eldritch activity going on in Shiokawa when his brothers pick the wrong creepy mansion to raid and get slaughtered by a cryptid, leaving Haru as the guilt-ridden Sole Survivor. His proficiency with weapons and close-quarters fighting makes him one of the more combat-oriented protagonists, and his Yakuza ties grant him a couple useful black market perks when shopping for supplies.
-   Yakuza are the primary antagonist in _Wreckless: The Yakuza Missions_ and its sequel where they've set up a presence in Hong Kong and Chicago.

    Visual Novels 

-   _Higurashi: When They Cry_ has the local Sonozaki family. One of the main characters, Mion Sonozaki, is a Yakuza Princess of the family.
-   _Ace Attorney_:
    -   Dee Vasquez has her own Yakuza thugs in the first game.
    -   Furio Tigre, from _Trials and Tribulations_, has connections with Yakuza (or the Mafia in the translation). Mostly, he owes a Yakuza/Mafia boss a large sum of money after almost killing his beloved granddaughter in a car crash. For worse, the girl has sorta fallen for him, so he uses her in his plans.
    -   One of the clients in _Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney_, Wocky Kitaki, is the son of a Yakuza boss.
-   In _Fate/stay night_, Shirou Emiya's Japanese-styled Big Fancy House is technically owned by the local yakuza. They allow him to stay there as a favor to his deceased father Kiritsugu Emiya, with whom they were on very good terms. Shirou's guardian and teacher, Taiga Fujimura, also happens to be the yakuza boss's granddaughter, though there is no indication that she takes any part in the family business.
-   The Azai Corporation in _The Devil on G-String_ plays a huge part in the game, as the main character's motivation is to repay his debt to them.
-   _Sampaguita_, the 3rd game of the _Yarudora_ series, has them as one of the antagonist factions which are after the main heroine, Maria Santos. And they're _certainly_ not above hitting a girl.
-   Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu, the Ultimate Yakuza from _Danganronpa 2: Goodbye Despair_, is the heir to the largest Yakuza family in Japan. There are two other characters with connections to the Yakuza: Fuyuhiko's dead sister Natsumi, who used to be the original heir candidate, and Peko Pekoyama, who is Fuyuhiko's bodyguard and hitwoman; Peko kills Mahiru Koizumi, who was involved in Natsumi's murder, after the latter pushes Fuyuhiko's Berserk Button, starting a Thanatos Gambit to save him.
-   The Yakuza are never seen in _Crescendo (JP)_, but they have a vital role in one of the paths. Yuka Otowa's parents were in massive debt with them and were Driven to Suicide for it, which completely ruined Yuka's life.
-   _DRAMAtical Murder_
    -   Koujaku, one of Aoba's love interest, is the son and heir of a yakuza. But one day, his Superpowered Evil Side took over and killed his family.
    -   Virus and Trip are members of the local yakuza, and ther aforementioned Koujaku recognizes them as such.
-   _Katawa Shoujo_:
    -   Kenji swears up and down that Lily is a Yakuza Princess and that a young man who once in a while hangs out around her is a Yakuza hitman. The "young man" turns out to be Lily's bifauxnen sister Akira, who wears suits because she works as a lawyer.
    -   It's implied (and Played for Laughs) that Shizune's father Jigoro ( who is Lilly's paternal uncle) is not just a high-ranked CEO, but a just as high-ranked Yakuza: he is a huge guy, he's a major Jerkass, his _very_ successful businesses are never really explained, he not only owns a katana _but parades around with it every single time he appears_, etc.
-   In _Love Bakudan_, Teru is the boss of the Tokugawa yakuza clan. Depending on what route you are on, her story role will differ; she can be an antagonist, an ally, or even a love interest.
-   In _Princess Evangile_, Masaya encounters two Yakuza thugs who are Evil Debt Collectors for loan sharks that his father owes money to. While the older one is Affably Evil and is strictly there for business, his underling resorts to violence as a first option.
-   In _Spirit Hunter: NG_, Akira's best friend, Seiji Amanome, is the heir to a Yakuza boss. The Amanome name is infamous throughout the city, and Seiji frequently uses his connections in the game to gather information, get rid of nuisances, or serve as protection for him and Akira. As a result of being so closely tied to the Yakuza, Seiji is a sadistic person who gets a thrill from threatening others.

    Web Animation 

-   _Etra chan saw it!_: Almost every male character except Kuroki have played this role. Tachibana appears to be most likely character to play a yakuza. Sometimes, he is the leader of a yakuza group.
-   _Gossip City_ has the Uwasa and Yamanba Yakuza gang. Unlike most examples, they are portrayed as sympathetic and they even help the protagonists by punishing the antagonists that torment them.

    Webcomics 

-   _Mob Ties_ centres around several groups of Japanese mobsters.
-   _Four Corners_' villain, Taisuke Arakawa, who is the son of a yakuza boss.
-   _Furry Fight Chronicles_ has Shun Gonfano and the sumiguza as the equivalent of yakuza in the story.

    Web Original 

-   French-Japanese YouTube video creator Louis-San has made several documentary videos about the Yakuza and the fascination and myths around them. Himself indulges in the fascination, especially about their codes of honor.

    Western Animation 

-   Featured in _The Simpsons_ episode "The Twisted World of Marge Simpson". After Homer hires the Springfield Mafia (led by Fat Tony) to protect Marge's pretzel business, her rivals engage in some tit-for-tat by hiring the Yakuza, leading to the memorable quote "They'll kill ya five times before ya hit the ground!" The Yakuza and the Mafia then have a big gang brawl on the Simpson family lawn. The pint-sized Yakuza leader just stands there ominously during the brawl doing nothing, prompting Homer to resist taking shelter because he assumes that the guy is going to do something really cool at any moment. As soon as Homer gives up and retreats inside, the little Yakuza indeed does _something_ cool, causing Homer to groan in disappointment that he had missed it. He later comes crashing in through the Simpsons' kitchen window, and apologizes to them before dashing back outside.
-   Briefly mentioned for a joke in a _South Park_ episode:
    
    **Officer Barbrady:** I'm sure you're wondering why we're standing in a pile of money with no pants on. I can assure you it has nothing to do with the Japanese Mafia.
    
-   _The Batman_: The episode "The Cat and the Bat" has Hideo Katsu, the leader of a group called the Dragon's Fangs. Catwoman made the mistake of stealing a statue from him (not knowing that he was a mobster _or_ that the statue really contained a data disc within it that contained the Yakuza's secret family chart), causing Katsu to believe she was sent by a rival family. Catwoman nervously tried to give it back when she found out that was the case; fortunately, Batman was more willing to listen than Katsu was.
-   Archer reveals that Pam engages in drifting with the Yakuza. She also engages them in a drug deal (and rips them off by paying in counterfeit cash). They're only spared when Sterling directly intimidates the New York Yakuza boss and figures out a way for him to end the conflict without shame.

___